JULES VERNE
JOURNEY TO THE
CENTRE OF THE EARTH
Translated with an Introduction and Notes by William Butcher
'to sum up all the. . . knowledge amassed by science, and to rewrite
the history of the universe.'
Thus Hetzel, Verne's publisher, ambitiously announced the aims of the series
the Extraordinary Journeys in the Known and Unknown Worlds, with
which Verne launched his literary career. After Journey to the Centre of
the Earth (1864) came such other masterpieces as The Adventures of
Captain Hatteras, Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea, and Around
the World in Eighty Days.
Journey to the Centre of the Earth has been consistently praised for its
style and vision of the world. It explores the prehistory of the globe, but
can also be read as a psychological quest, for the journey itself is as important
as arrival or discovery. Professor Lidenbrock and Axel travel
across Iceland, and then down through an extinct crater towards a
sunless sea where they enter a living past and are confronted with the
origins of man. A classic of nineteenth-century literature, the novel's distinctive
combination of realism and Romanticism has marked figures as
diverse as Sartre and Tournier, Mark Twain and Conan Doyle.
'extremely useful' Modern Language Review
'a virtuoso exegete' French Studies
THE WORLD'S CLASSICS
JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH
JULES VERNE was born in Nantes in 1828, the eldest of five children in a
prosperous family of French, Breton, and Scottish ancestry. His early
years were happy, apart from an unfulfilled passion for his cousin Caroline.
Literature always attracted him and while taking a law degree in
Paris he wrote a number of plays. His first book, about a journey to Scotland,
was not published during his lifetime. However, in 1862, Five Weeks
in a Balloon was accepted by the publisher Hetzel, becoming an immediate
success. It was followed by Journey to the Centre of the Earth,
Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Seas, Around the World in Eighty
Days, and sixty other novels, covering the whole world (and below and
beyond). Verne himself travelled over three continents, before suddenly
selling his yacht in 1886. Eight of the books appeared after his death in
1905 although they were in fact written partly by his son Michel.
WILLIAM BUTCHER was formerly Head of the Language Centre at the Hong
Kong Technical College. He has studied at Warwick, Lancaster, London, 
and the Ecole Normale Superieure, and has taught languages and pure
mathematics in Malaysia, France, and Britain. As well as numerous articles
on French literature and natural language processing, he has published
Mississippi Madness (1990), Verne's Journey to the Centre of the
Self (1990), and critical editions of Verne's Humbug (1991), Backwards to
Britain (1992), and Journey to the Centre of the Earth (1992) and Twenty
Thousand Leagues under the Seas (1998) for Oxford World's Classics. 
REVIEWS
'complete joy. . . deeply moved by the language. . . powerful translation.
. . brilliant', Extrapolation
'the first critical edition. . . complete success. . . invaluable. . . no comparable
French edition exists', BSJV
'superb. . . a true pearl of a book', Professor Arthur Evans 
 THE WORLD'S CLASSICS

 JULES VERNE
Journey to the
Centre of the Earth

Translated with an Introduction and Notes by
 WILLIAM BUTCHER
 Oxford New York
 OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
 1992
[. . .]
Translation, Introduction, Note on the Text and Translation, Select Bibliography,
Chronology, Explanatory Notes, Appendices William Butcher
1992
The right of William Butcher to be identified as author of this work has
been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs, and Patents
Act 1988.
[. . .]
 CONTENTS
Introduction
Note on the Text and Translation
Select Bibliography
A Chronology of Jules Verne
JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH
1
Explanatory Notes
Appendix: Verne as Seen by the Critics 
Introduction
In France, Jules Verne is not the same person as in Britain. South of
the Channel, Verne is recognised as an authentic, nineteenth-century
writer with a proper set of Collected Works. Since the 1960s, any surprise,
condescension or irony at reading or studying the Voyages extraordinaires
has disappeared, even among those who never actually buy any
books. Balzac, Stendhal, Verne, Zola: the odd man out, the least integrated
into Gallic national culture, is the Italianate Stendhal.
But in the English-speaking countries it is rare to meet adults who will
admit to liking Verne. He is a children's author, a writer of science-fiction,
a poor stylist, at best responsible for films starring James Mason. His
works may be fiction, but certainly don't count as literature. He is shorttrousered,
not really French, and has nothing to say about the 'human
condition'.
One reason for such a disparity must be the generally atrocious English
'translations'. The overwhelming majority of books by 'Djools' Verne
are leaden or wooden, and possibly infringe the Trade Descriptions Act.
They have lost up to half their contents, but have gained instead some
wonderful howlers. There is no equivalent here to Baudelaire's Poe, or to
Scott Moncrieff's Proust, with their textual 'thickness' and their sense of
overall belonging.
Journey to the Centre of the Earth has been translated more than ten
times, but many are very poor indeed. The best-known version is still the
atrocious 1872 one, which rebaptises Axel as Harry and Lidenbrock as
Hardwigg, makes them both Scottish, and finishes each paragraph with at
least one totally invented sentence.
But this novel hardly deserves such treatment. It was the first unqualified
critical success of Verne's and the first to be written under the
close monitoring of his publisher and mentor Hetzel. Journey to the Centre
of the Earth is, above all, a brilliant piece of writing. It is an unparalleled
entertainment, but one that also stands comparison with other literary
works of the nineteenth century.
The plot can be quickly summarised: Professor Lidenbrock and his
nephew Axel discover a document in a twelfth-century Icelandic book
which, when deciphered, records the claim of a certain Arne Saknussemm
to have gone down into the carter of Snaefells and reached the centre of
the Earth. Lidenbrock decides to try this for himself and, dragging Axel
away from his fiancee Grauben, travels to Reykjavik and across Iceland.
With the help of the stoical Hans, they find the crater and travel down
through the geological layers of the past, experiencing various adventures.
A long way down, they discover a huge caver containing a large
sea plus various biological specimens, some dead and some very much
alive. After trying to cross the sea, they discover a path down again, 
marked with Saknussemm's runic initials. But it is now blocked. They attempt
to blow up the obstacle, while sheltering on the raft, but instead
carry part of the sea with them down into the bowels of the Earth. They
then start rising again; and end up riding a volcanic eruption, which
throws them out on the slopes of Stromboli.
Journey to the Centre of the Earth prefigures many of the ideas of
Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Seas, Around the World in Eighty
Days, and From the Earth to the Moon. The mood is light-hearted 
although hardly optimistic, for it contains tragic, obsessive and sometimes
morbid elements. There is even a love-element, of sorts. In this novel,
more than elsewhere, Verne seems to let himself go, while at the same
time drawing inspiration from many different sources. But before examining
these, it is useful to look at Verne's life and the Extraordinary Journeys
as a whole.
Jules-Gabriel Verne was born in 1828, on an island in central Nantes
in western France. His father had a successful law practice, and wrote occasional
amateur verses. His mother's maiden name was Allotte de la
Fule, derived from a Scottish Allott who had emigrated in the fifteenth
century to join Louis XI's Scottish Guard of archers and eventually been
ennobled.
There have been over a dozen biographies of Verne, most notably by
his niece Marguerite Allotte de la Fule and his grandson Jean Jules-Verne.
The former, however, is embellished and bowdlerised; and even the latter
is a mixture of family legends and manuscript sources often readily accessible,
including over 1,000 letters from Verne to his parents and publisher.
About a dozen interviews are also known to exist, mostly with British
and American journalists, plus a brief autobiographical piece, 'Memories
of Childhood and Youth'. Lastly there is Backwards into Britain, a
lightly fictionalised account of his visit to England and Scotland in 1859
with his friend Hignard.
A no doubt apocryphal story has Jules running away to sea at the age
of 11 to fetch coral on the Coralie for his cousin Caroline. Her rejection of
him, several years later, certainly seems to have left its mark on him. But
otherwise his schooldays were unexceptional apart from a passion for
messing about on makeshift rafts on the River Loire with his brother Paul.
In 1847 Jules arrived in Paris to study law. For the next ten years, he
lived in a succession of single rooms, sometimes with barely enough to
eat. He devoted himself during this period to writing plays, at which he
was moderately successful: of the total of approximately twenty-nine,
seven had been performed or published by 1863, at least one of them
with the help of Dumas pere. In 1856 he met Honorine de Viane, a widow
with two daughters, and married her a few months later.
The journey to Britain (his first outside France) had a major impact on
him, especially Edinburgh and the Highlands. Although his visit was carefully
written up (making it the first book Verne completed), Voyage en
Angleterre et en Ecosse was rejected by Hetzel and lay hidden until
1989, when it was published and hailed as a brilliant piece of travel writ-
ing, and a vital document for understanding Verne. It was published in
English in 1992.
From 1851-5, Verne published five short stories, in which many of the
themes and structures of his novels are already visible. Each one concerns
the difficulty of getting things going (like Verne's own careers). All
are set in foreign parts, all are influenced by late Romanticism, and all finish
more or less tragically.
In 1862, Hetzel accepted a book entitled Five Weeks in a Balloon.
Within months, it had become a huge success, and led to a series of contracts
for the next forty years. The principal aims of the collected works,
in Hetzel's immodest announcement, were 'to sum up all the geographical,
geological, physical and astronomical knowledge amassed by modern
science, and to rewrite the history of the universe'. At the age of 37,
Verne acquired some security, even if the contracts were far from generous
(the plays adapted from the novels proved more lucrative). Starting
in 1864 with Journey to the Centre of the Earth, one or two books duly
appeared each year, eventually totalling sixty-three novels and eighteen
short stories.
Verne continued to travel. In 1862 he had visited Norway and Denmark,
again with Hignard, and in 1867 he sailed to America on the liner
the Great Eastern. He also bought three yachts of successively greater
size, on which he went back to Scotland and Scandinavia and visited
North Africa. In 1872 the family moved permanently to Amiens. In 1886,
for reasons which remain unknown, Verne sold his yacht and gave up
travelling.
In 1861 his only child, Michel, had been born. He proved unruly, and
was at one stage forcibly packed off to India as an apprentice pilot. In
1883, he eloped with a 16-year-old girl but eventually divorced his first
wife and re-married. He tried his hand at many careers, including scientific
journalism and fiction-writing, one of his stories being published in
1889 under his father's name.
After Verne's death in 1905, eight novels and three short stories were
published in the series of Extraordinary Journeys. These works are slightly
different from the previous ones; Michel publicly declared that he had
prepared some of them for publication, but denied doing anything more.
Only in 1978 was it proved, on the basis of the manuscripts, that he had
made considerable changes, including writing whole chapters. Two-thirds
of The Survivors of the 'Jonathan', for instance, are his, including the
many philosophico-political passages; and perhaps even more of the masterpiece
'The Eternal Adam', set 20,000 years in the future.
The Journeys are characterised by simplicity, most evidently in their
language, where clarity of thought and a flowing style produce ease of
comprehension. Like the Parables or Aesop's Fables, though, there are
layers of implicit meanings that often work against the surface level, making
Verne an 'underground revolutionary'. Again, the subject matter ostensibly
avoids what many have thought to be the primary aim of the
novel, namely an account of psychological processes, especially relation-
ships between men and women. In the best-known works, the depiction
of society at large in its sociological, political, and historical aspects is not
very much in evidence either; and nor is the transmission of pure ideas.
Verne's works are concerned with physical, material existence, or, more
simply, the interaction between people and things. Virtually all of them
are situated in a definite time and place, often far away, with the journey
a central element.
Genre fiction has a poor reputation. By placing writer x in genre y, the
assumption is sometimes that he or she deals with matters tangential to
personal experience and hence to the real aims of literature. But such an
assumption would seem to be based on a double misapprehension. Direct
personal experience does not exist as such; and there is no simple recounting
in literature (or in life). Experience can only be talked about in
relation to specific concerns, which normally imply some genre or another.
To call Defoe an adventure writer, Swift a travel writer, the Brontes
writers of sentimental fiction, or Shakespeare a crime and historical
writer, may be true but will shock, because we are accustomed to viewing
great literature as transcending any particular pigeon-hole. In other
words, a mistaken view holds literature to be genre-free and genre fiction
to be literature-free.
In Verne's case, if a genre classification really is necessary, he falls
into that of travel and adventure. But in no case can he be considered a
science fiction writer. One good reason is that only about a third of the
Extraordinary Journeys really involve any science; and another, that despite
his futuristic reputation the events recounted nearly always happen
just before the present. What is more, the science is not generally innovative
or designed to change society. A significant number of the works do
depend on a novel form of transport, whether underground, under water,
or in the air or beyond. But Verne prefers 'intermediate technology'. His
first vehicle is the balloon, invented long before he was writing, and which
he in fact considered too high-tech, but the only way to get across Africa
in 1862. His next four vehicles are foot- and raft-power in Journey to the
Centre of the Earth and sailing-ship and dog-sled in the greatly underestimated
Adventures of Captain Hatteras. Even Twenty Thousand Leagues
under the Seas is more about the ocean than submarines, more about
Nemo than nuclear propulsion. Around the World in Eighty Days goes out
of its way to avoid any technological extrapolation, reverting to elephants
or wind-sled each time the railway fails.
The real thrust of Verne's works, their raison d'etre, is to explore the
globe. All the Extraordinary Journeys in the Known and Unknown Worlds
(as Hetzel baptised them in 1866) deal with an 'elsewhere'. Even Backwards
into Britain is a voyage of discovery: Verne describes his excitement
at the idea of a myth-laden Caledonia, where every hill and street is
redolent with memories an excitement specifically literary and historical.
True, he prefers the ship to Liverpool to be propeller-driven; and the
scene where the train hurtles along the Scottish crags is most striking. 
But such enthusiasm at poetry in motion hardly makes him sciencefiction.

Verne's imagination works instead on an unusual sensitivity to the
physical world, with the dimensions of space representing a constant interest
(rarely 'outer space', but frequently 'inner'). Modern criticism has
found a very wide variety of innovative elements in his treatment of the
globe. The 'world-view' conveyed includes, in brief summary: an anthropomorphisation
of the Earth and a mechanisation of the human, with the
biological often acting as a go-between; an attempt at sensual 'totalisation',
an exhaustive knowledge (in the biblical sense) of the world; a constant
scepticism; the undermining by juxtaposition, humour, and irony of
any dogmatic view of existence; a metaphorisation of everyday objects
and ideas, which are then often re-metaphorised or even demetaphorised;
a distinctive rhythm, made up of repetitions, silences, minor
and major keys, counterpoint, and slow movements leading up to explosive
crescendos; and an innovative narrative technique, whether in the
use of tense, person, point of view, voice, or structure.
Reading Verne nearly a century after his death, the abiding impression
is that of a distinctive voice and a personal vision: of literary works that
remain (or have become?) startlingly modern.
One problem for a detailed analysis of Verne is the sheer volume of
his production. Nevertheless, his non-posthumous work have often been
divided into three periods. The first dozen novels are self-confident in
tone and structure. The second period deals with less 'prestigious' territories,
and increasingly with social, political and historical issues, in novels
like Mathias Sandorf (1885), set in the Mediterranean, or North against
South (1887), about the American Civil War. The final period often comes
back to ideas treated in the first, but in ironic, derisory, or negative fashion:
Le Sphinx des glaces (1897), for instance, designed to be a sequel to
Poe's Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket, or Master of the
World (1904), which makes the rebel Robur of The Clipper of the Clouds
(1886) into a misogynist destroyer.
Verne's imagination is fired by 'one-offs', by unique events. The Dark
Continent, the poles, the interior of the Earth, the dark side of the moon
and the bottom of the ocean were unexplored when he began writing. In
each case a central point then represented a maximum of exoticism, an
ultima Thule, further-than-which-it-was-not-possible-to-go. But each
could only be done once. Even from the beginning, as a consequence,
Verne's travellers seem torn between a hasty extravagance and a thrifty
reluctance: one eye on the efforts of real-life explorers and of the author's
competitors in the fiction business, the other on spinning the series out
for as long as possible. Then, once all the possibilities have been exhausted,
all corners of the universe visited, the works 'have nowhere to
go'.
Such a view of the plots has more than an element of truth. But it
must be conjugated with the real nature of invention in the Journeys. The
travelling carries much more weight than the arriving. A constantly ex-
pressed fear is that of a 'fiasco' on arrival in port; and hence a perpetual
strategy, that of the most roundabout route the 'heroic' method, as
Lidenbrock puts it. Verne's writing is essentially about maximising the potential
of the blank areas on or off the maps, those non-historical, nongeographical,
and sometimes non-spatial domains where his imagination
can be given full rein. In the later works his inventiveness turns back on
itself and becomes in some ways more creative. One's reaction to the different
phases of the Journeys is therefore ultimately a matter of individual
taste.
But in any case one of the aims of exploring the universe is in reality
the search for traces of the past, much more attractive to Verne than any
conceivable future. And clearly the exploration of the history of an individual,
a species or a world can be pursued almost indefinitely. Paradoxically,
only the past is open-ended.
The three-way division is not therefore clear-cut, and the transitions
are particularly evasive. The 'follow up' to Journey to the Centre of the
Earth, The Child of the Cavern (1877), is perhaps the last novel where
some 'transcendent' discovery seems probable, where access to a lifegiving
mystery is at stake; but throughout the 1870s a mixture of anguished
and good-humoured works appeared, from Around the World in
Eighty Days (1872) via The Boy Captain (1879) to The Tribulations of a
Chinese Gentleman (1879). The first one is a journey-to-end-all-journeys,
an effortless summum of all possible worldly travel but is itself a repetition,
as Captain Grant's Children (1865-7) had already gone round the
world. The Mysterious Island (1874-5) is another culmination or cul-desac,
for it is situated in the finite space of a small desert island.
It would be tempting, therefore, to say that 1875 must be approximately
when 'something happened'. However this would be to ignore the
extraordinary The Chancellor, probably written in 1870. It was influenced
by the notorious events on the Raft of the Meduse, when over threequarters
of the people who abandoned ship in shallow waters off the west
coast of Africa failed to survive. Perhaps also echoing the Franco-Prussian
War of 1870-1, Verne's novel is a horrific story of man's inhumanity to
man, complete with murder and several varieties of cannibalism. It contains
no science whatsoever; and precious little optimism. It is also a
landmark in the history of French literature, being the first narrative novel
to be written in the present tense a clear sign of the breaking down of
the old order.
Any tidy schema of Verne's works is thus difficult to sustain. Two of
the rare constants are the pessimism, incipient even in the early fiction,
and the retreat into the past.
This is where Journey to the Centre of the Earth comes in, both as the
second of the Journeys to be published and because of its theme of descent
into the most distant past.
We know very little about its inception. It was thought that there was
no extant manuscript. However, in 1994 one was amazingly revealed to
exist; but it is in private hands and no details have been published to 
date. Accordingly, this third reprint of the present volume contains unpublished
information about this important find (see pp. xxx-xxii and 231-
2). There are no surviving proofs, and virtually the only reference in the
contemporary correspondence occurs in a letter of 12 April 1864. Since it
is not mentioned in the contract of 1 January 1864, it was probably written
between these two dates (the action of the novel itself runs up to
March 1864 and beyond). At the time of writing, Verne was probably correcting
the proofs of The Adventures of Captain Hatteras (hence the similarities:
in each a liquid Ariadne's thread leads to an electric, illuminated
sea, representing a return to paradise, but one protected by a volcanic
fire).
One of the strands common to all the early books is Scotland. Verne's
urge to go ever further north, abruptly curtailed after only three days in
the Highlands in Backwards to Britain, re-emerges in both the Journey
and Hatteras, each expedition being made to pass close to Scotland at
least once. All three books confront the untamed wilderness, which for
classically educated French people was northern barbarianism. In all three
the harshness of life fits in with a reductionism, a miserabilisme, even a
masochistic streak. All feature protagonists who structure their existence
in terms of how far they have travelled. The bare Romantic landscapes in
all three are suited to admiring the patterns of nature: an obsessively repeated
phrase is 'criss-crossing meanders'. Linearity and networks, sensual
curves and brutal straight lines, nature and artifice: this phrase, first
used in describing railways in Liverpool, is perhaps emblematic of Verne's
view of existence.
The publishing history of the Journey indicates another concern, for
this novel is unique among Verne's in undergoing significant changes after
publication in book form. Most of chapters 37-9 were added in the first
large-octavo edition (1867). The reason for the insertion was undoubtedly
developments in 1865 establishing prehistory as a major field of study. If
the 1864 edition featured ancient sea-monsters, the new pages go much
further. They present the perfectly preserved body of a human being
amongst remains dating from the Quaternary Era and, what is more, a
white human being. But they also feature a living herd of mastodons, together
with an equally living herdsman: a 12-foot giant carrying a giant
club. Although his existence is subsequently called into doubt, these chapters
go well beyond the limits of plausibility Verne normally set himself.
Both in the new section and in the Journey as a whole, Verne drew
from a wide range of sources, constructing a veritable meeting-place for
the most varied literary and scientific authors.
There may be some slight influence from Dante's Inferno, the Icelandic
legends about Hamlet (one of Shakespeare's sources), Chateaubriand
(for some of the Romantic language), and Baudelaire ('To plunge to
the chasm's bottom, Heaven or Hell, what difference?'). But the text often
indicates more direct influences. Most obvious are Virgil's Et quacumque
viam dederit fortuna, sequamur (ch. 11), facilis descensus Averni (ch. 18)
and Immanis pecoris custos, immanior ipse! (ch. 39) (see Explanatory 
Notes for translations). If the ascription is explicit in the first two cases, it
may not have been needed in the third for readers brought up on the
classics. More generally, the early alchemists are acknowledged, and the
word Averni ('the Underworld') may indicate a source of inspiration in
medieval ideas of an underground Hell.
An explicit reference is made to E. T. A. Hoffmann's character 'who
lost his shadow' (ch. 29), an important feature in the underground cavern
being the lack of shadows. But Hoffmann's Mines of Falun also enthusiastically
describes underground passages walled with mineral riches and
sparkling crystals of strange-sounding substances, with striking similarities
to Verne's descriptions.
Verne quotes 'a British captain' (ch. 30) who thought that the Earth
was 'a vast hollow sphere, inside which the air was kept luminous by reason
of the great pressure, while two heavenly bodies, Pluto and Proserpina,
traced their mysterious orbits'. The Captain (of infantry) John Cleve
Symmes was a real-life figure, in fact an American, and almost certainly
the author of Symzonia (1820, under the pseudonym 'Captain Adam
Seaborn'). 'Captain Synness' is quoted in Capitaine Hatteras (ch. 24) as
believing that access to the centre of the Earth was possible via the
Poles and as having suggested such an expedition to the equally real-life
scientists and explorers Davy, Humboldt, and Arago!
Edgar Allan Poe is perhaps the most important literary influence on
the Journey. Verne published a long study of his works in April 1864, analysing
in particular 'The Gold Bug' and Arthur Gordon Pym. The borrowings
from Poe in the Journey include the word-puzzle and its solution, the
leper scene, the mummified body, the fear of cataracts, the vertigo produced
by 'high places' and the accompanying suicidal temptation plus
possibly the hurricane, the battle between the sea-monsters, and the
'bone-graveyard'.
The Journey also shares material with Dumas's Isaac Laquedem
(1853). These include a retracing of man's past, an underground descent
that leads to gigantic monsters and shady forests, a discovery of animal
bones, volcanoes described with a similar vocabulary of 'bowels',
'mouths', and 'strata', the idea of air becoming denser than mercury, a
hollow globe with two planets lighting it, lessons in geology and palaentology,
including 'zoophytes', hints at evolution, and so on. Some sort of
connection between the two would seem indisputable.
There are also disturbing similarities with George Sand's 'Laura: Voyage
dans le cristal' (January 1864). This tale presents a young German
mineralogist, Alexis, who is in love with his cousin and dreams that he is
visiting the inside of a 'geode' a hollow stone covered in crystal then
that he is going to the North Pole, from where he explores the interior of
the Earth. Significant parallels include a sailing from Kiel, a fall into a
chasm, an uncle with a speech impediment and a quick temper, the increasing
decisiveness of the hero, the lack of heat in the centre, difficult
descents, and an encounter with prehistoric animals. Sand subsequently
noted in her diary the uncanny resemblance. Both authors were published 
by Hetzel, were close friends of his, and had read Figuier, an expert on
volcanoes. Both had also read Charles Edmond, a friend of Sand's and the
source of much of the voyage and the travel across Iceland in the Journey.
However, Verne probably borrowed ideas directly from Sand, who
must therefore be considered an important inspirating for the novel.
Verne was in addition sued for plagiarism by a Leon Delmas. Under
the pseudonym Rene de Pont-Jest, he had published a short story called
'La Tete de Mimers' in the Revue contemporaine of September 1863. The
hero is similarly German; the document causing the journey is found in an
old book; it is written in runic characters; and it is a shadow that indicates
where to look. The affair dragged on until a court case in 1877, which
Verne won: but the similarities remain disturbing.
Among more scientific works which contributed to the Journey are
those of Elie de Beaumont and Charles Saint-Claire Deville, a friend of
Verne's who had visited the crater of Stromboli as a specialist in seismic
phenomena, particularly intermittent volcanoes. Louis Figuier's La Terre
avant le deluge (1863) was a major source for many of the underground
scenes. Boitard's Paris avant les hommes (1863) has also been suggested
for the prehistoric aspect; plus Ludvig Holberg's Nicolai Klimii Iter Subterraneum,
novam telluris theoriam. . . (Copenhagen, 1741 translated as
Nicolas Klimius dans le monde souterrain, 1741). This was subsequently
republished in the same series as the anonymous Relation of a Journey
from the North Pole to the South Pole via the Centre of the World
(1721) and certainly influenced Poe's 'A Descent into the Maelstrom'.
Poe also seemed to have drawn from it for the cataract ending of Arthur
Gordon Pym.
What is common to many of the sources, in sum, is the medieval belief,
not entirely dismissed in the nineteenth century, that the centre of
the Earth could be reached via huge openings at the poles. Poe acts as a
clearing-house for many of them; but Verne also seems to have drawn
directly from a wide variety of literary and scientific sources, although he
then reworked them into a coherent tale of his own.
The Journey has had in turn an influence on later writers. It has been
explicitly borrowed from by the French writers Villiers de l'Isle Adam, Alfred
Jarry, and Boris Vian, but seems also to have influenced Mark Twain
(in Tom Sawyer), Arthur Conan Doyle (in The Lost World), possibly the
playwright Paul Claudel and the surrealist painter Andre Delvaux, obsessively.
Much of the work of the contemporary French writer Michel
Tournier is a homage to Verne, with one section of his key novel The Meteors
constituting a sustained pastiche of the Journey like all good pastiches,
a respectful and sophisticated dissection and an exaggeration of
some of the absurder sides to the tale.
Journey to the Centre of the Earth is unusual in its degree of escape
from contemporary (and indeed historical) reality. Verne is here in his
element. He delights in the feel of subterranean existence, with imagination,
even dreams, playing an important role. His writing is volcanic. 
But only three-fifths of the Journey actually takes place underground.
Also, the 'to' of the title is misleading, for it is not clear whether one can
even reach the centre. Verne works round the question of whether a great
heat exists without ever answering it. Saknussemm claimed to have been
there (although not necessarily to have come back); but, as Axel points
out, reliable ways of measuring depth underground had not been invented
at the time. But, as Lidenbrock had remarked just before, one is weightless
at the centre, so .. . .
The whole story contains in fact many more mysteries, implausibilities,
and ambivalences than Verne's positivistic reputation allows. Quite
apart from the doubt attached to the scene of the mastodons and the giant
herdsman, riding an eruption on a raft of wood, even if fossilised, can
legitimately raise eyebrows. Even the route is not clear: the tunnel discovered
in the great cavern probably starts from the other side of the
Lidenbrock Sea, but the narrator repeatedly affirms the opposite.
Again, man's past is riddled with unsolved problems. Did man arrive
relatively late in the scheme of things, as had generally been recognised
by mid-nineteenth century? Did the human bodies discovered in the interior
actually live there; and does this then re-establish man at the beginnings
(a) down there and/or (b) up here? If so, what sort of man: the
most highly evolved, comparable to modern Europeans, in the racist
views current at the time; or a giant, a relative of the first man; or else
some intermediate being?
Verne apparently dislikes all theories of evolution, for mainly humanistic
but still partly religious reasons. But this is not the essential point: he
raises questions, provides ambiguous signs, and then plays Axel off
against Lidenbrock, modern science against old-fashioned natural philosophy.
Ultimately he argues in this book that any overall conception can
be destroyed by a single new find. It is things that count, not theories.
If the Journey itself leaves any certainties, they may not last. Probably
at about this time, Verne wrote 'Humbug', in which a giant human skeleton
is dug up in the United States, thus radically transforming evolutionary
theories but is then shown to be a hoax. Another short story, 'The
Eternal Adam' (1910), suggests that civilisations inevitably expand and
then go into terminal decline, so that any number have perhaps lived and
died. Consequently man may have simply 'evolved' from his own degenerate
forefathers he may always have existed. But then again, what the
story shows, as distinct from tells, is perhaps the opposite, that humanity
may transmit wisdom down through the generations, so that it is not necessarily
stuck in an eternal cycle after all. But in any case most or all of
the story was written by Michel Verne. On the other hand, his ideas were
very much drawn from his father's. . .
One should not, therefore, seek positive views on evolution in the
Journeys. The attention paid to the question covers up gaps in knowledge
rather than fills them in. Our interest, over a century on, lies more in how
it is done than in the answers to the questions themselves. 
One method Verne uses to sustain interest is to set Lidenbrock's erudition
against Axel's naivete and ignorance, providing a role-model for the
reader. Dialogue is often employed, with Axel's simple questions sometimes,
however, not having simple answers, thus allowing him to confound
his uncle. Verne popularises knowledge by means of models and
comparisons, with frequent appeals to instinct and common sense. The
personality clashes of the scholarly world, and particularly the drives of
the individual scholars, further reduce the abstraction. In accordance with
contemporary usage and that of the eighteenth century, which often
models Verne's conceptions a relatively homely language is used, of
'elastic', 'cracks', 'bones', or 'monsters' with, however, learned words
like 'Japhetic', 'Devonian', or 'subliming' thrown in for effect.
One apparently scientific example central to the novel is the time-
space equivalence: by going down into the Earth, the heroes go back
through the layers of past time. They leave the nineteenth century, pass
through the successive geological ages, and become 'prehistoric' or 'fossilised'.
Even the adverbs like 'soon' or 'after a while' play the game. The
result is phrases like 'Creation had made obvious progress since the day
before': in other words, Verne is playing on the reversing of time and the
absurdity of interpreting Genesis literally. This time-space equivalence is,
once again, a literary device: the plot and the narrative voice structure
the science, rather than the other way round.
Another learned-looking device in the Journey is the large number of
figures. Quite often they are erroneous although not as frequently as the
foreign words. Again, lists are frequently in evidence. Mostly composed of
nouns, they incorporate material from varied sources, although Verne invariably
adapts them to his own ends. The style is emphasised as much
as the content, by means of careful selection, by placing in context, by
emphasising the immediate and dramatic features; but above all by using
euphony, alliteration, analogy, and metaphorisation.
Science thus becomes consistently subordinate to wider conceptions.
Any body of organised knowledge is ultimately for Verne just a sub-genre
of creative writing: the only all-embracing discourse that he allows. A few
of the early reviewers misread Verne and assumed he was a scientist but
the more perceptive emphasised the plausibility and the quality of the
writing. His science and knowledge are really just a vehicle for highly personal
conceptions of the world. As a literary endeavour, the work contains
human truth: it examines all conventional wisdoms, producing more problems
than solutions. It is made up of myths, metaphors and a fair amount
of mayhem.
Most of the ideas are mediated via the characters. Although the characterisation
is hardly conventional, it is quite varied. The verbal and other
foibles of the contrasting but complementary couple Lidenbrock-Axel
make for a more complex relationship than many in Verne's works. Both
employ the full resources of plays on words, repartee, interchange of position,
understatement or exaggeration, and the taking of logical positions
to absurd extremes. 
The opening description of Lidenbrock in terms of his tics and eccentricities
reveals the volcanic forces within him. He is an obsessive, a
driven man, so much in a hurry that he crams double helpings into his
mouth and pulls at plants and pushes at trains to make them go faster.
The linear drive of his watchword 'Forward!' compels him on and then
down, refusing all deviations or retreats, making him into 'the man of the
perpendiculars'. Not that the portrait is entirely unsympathetic: the professor's
heart is in the right place, if slightly difficult to find. He is energetic,
courageous, competent, knowledgeable, and bears no malice he is
simply a little excitable, absent-minded, and narrow-sighted.
We often view his nephew from the outside, from an ironical distance,
for Axel-the-narrator knows things that Axel-the-character does not. He is
at first passive, lacking in character. His main impulse is to stay at home
with Grauben, and his main virtues are scepticism and self-knowledge,
those of an unimpassioned observer. From the beginning, however, he
also embodies spontaneity and hence true discovery and creativity. With
time, a role-reversal occurs and many of the professor's characteristics
and functions are transferred to him, including the passionate subjectivity.
He is thus initiated into the adult world, making the partnership more
or less equal. It is significant that Lidenbrock writes relatively dry scientific
works, but Axel, even if he writes at his uncle's bidding, produces the
more creative book that we end up holding in our hands.
Hans provides the perfect foil, governed by phlegm, rationality, cerebrality
and efficiency. The main barrier to understanding him is that he
has no common language with Axel, so communication is virtually limited
to nouns. Although an admirable and generous person, he demonstrates
few human feelings; and although highly ingenious, he is uncreative. As a
northerner and a hunter (and therefore a destroyer, albeit a pacific one),
he lacks that vital spark: even direct application of ball-lightning cannot
bring this perfect being to life. In sum, he is one of Verne's psychological
limiting cases, an experiment in extremes. The great ancestor Saknussemm,
in contrast, seems to embody many different traits: a northerner
but achieving more than the nineteenth-century heroes combined;
a writer of sorts; a misunderstood genius; and the explorer who unfairly
benefits from getting there first, destroying the patch for ever after.
Verne's humour is applied to any pretention or artificiality in the characters,
most simply by means of a juxtaposition with the hard facts and
with the hidden intentions of the person concerned. Networks of desire
are thus revealed, particularly where the libido is involved. From the correspondence,
we know that Verne had an unbridled sexual imagination.
But since it cannot operate openly here, it is clothed in humour.
There is also a striking recurrent vocabulary of phrases like 'instinctive',
'automatic', and 'without thinking'. Even though the noun itself 'the
unconscious' ('l'inconscient') does not seem to have been used before the
1890s, Verne is clearly demonstrating an awareness of the underlying
concept. In the chapters added in 1867, he mentions a William Carpenter,
an expert on dredging the ocean depths and author of Zoology. . . and 
Chief Forms of Fossil Remains (1857, reissued 1866) and The Unconscious
Action of the Brain (1866-71). A man of such varied, and Vernian,
interests may easily be the source of the innovative psychological terminology
of the depths in the Journey.
Considerable energy is in fact both repressed and displayed by Axel
and Lidenbrock and by the author. The whole book is charged. Electricity
acts as a convenient metaphor for sexual energy; horses have a field day;
and hands play an important role throughout the book. So do reinforced
staves, pens, knives, telescopes, trees, giant mushrooms, thick pillars,
verticality in general, tubes, pockets, leather wallets, purses, and goatskin
bottles ('outre' from 'uterus'). The Earth itself is a blatant sexual object,
with a rich vocabulary to describe the twin firm white peaks, pointed
waves seething with fire, mouths wide open, gaping orifices, cavities,
bays, fjords, gashes, and slits; but also the thrusting (and blocking) of
the most varied penetrations, glows, eruptions, effusions, and discharges,
as well as repeated instances of falling and sinking.
But Verne's originality may lie equally in his linking of these fixations
with others: most bodily functions are also obsessively present in the
Earth's bowels, including sweating, trembling, eating, digesting, eliminating
of waste matter, and pregnancy and childbirth. The sex is only part of
a general view of the world as a reflection of the observer's own consciousness and
unconscious. Freud himself said that writers had most of
the ideas before the scientists; whatever the truth of this, in the Journey
we can certainly detect pre-Freudian views on the role of dreams and the
libido in the subconscious mind.
How does the Journey to the Centre of the Earth fit in with the literary
movements of the period? The question has not really been answered to
date. One reason is the very variety of Verne's production, extending over
seventy years, making him the contemporary of both Charlotte Bronte
and James Joyce. Equally important, Verne is sui generis.
One influence on the Journeys is undoubtedly the contemporary theatre,
Verne's lifelong love. His attention to dialogue and care for timing and
suspense, especially in the 'set scenes' and the ending, doubtless derives
from this. But the novel is also under the spell of the Romantic literary
movement. A brief list of features might include: a sense of melancholy,
personal angst or existential doubt; a tendency to flee society and search
for consolation in nature; a 'poetic' use of language, particularly the use
of adjectives, the imperfect tense, and long sentences; a search for the
transcendental or absolute, values outside 'this world'; a fixation on time
and the transitory nature of existence, producing an obsession with decay
and death; and a retreat into the past, a search for the origins of the individual
and the species. The sum of these tendencies means that the Journey
cannot be excluded from the general orbit of late Romanticism.
But Verne is simultaneously a Realist. The Journey encompasses scepticism
and reductionism, but also shares with Realism a preference for
male characters (and virtues), a reluctance to indulge in unsubstantiated
psychologism, a tendency to short, sharp, sometimes verbless sentences. 
The paradox, though, is that so much Realism in the externals leads to
the opposite of realism in the mood: Verne's positivistic aspects culminate
in the wildest longings and imaginings. The short sentences then highlight
the long ones; the nouns, the adjectives. Opposites not only attract in
Verne, but produce a pole-reversal, an inversion of signs as most of the
conditions of surface existence are inverted underground. The Journey
proves that the most down-to-earth Realism can, despite the labels in the
histories of literature, lead to the most high-blown Romanticism.
In a chronological course on literature, Journey to the Centre of the
Earth falls between Stendhal's Charterhouse of Parma and Flaubert's Sentimental
Education, between Dickens and Disraeli and yet somehow appears
more modern than these works. To describe it, the most appropriate
terms may be those associated with the twentieth century. Verne participates
in the Modernist movement, if by Modernism we mean an obsession
with speed, with machines, a de-humanisation and an abstraction. In
purely literary terms, the Journey must be considered modern because of
its anticipation of the twentieth century's use of self-awareness or 'selfconsciousness'
at all levels: the creation of self-reflecting structures, devices
turned back on themselves, symbols that symbolise their own existence,
a text that exposes itself, lays bare its own innards.
The word 'Averni', as one example, contains the letters v, e, r, n.
'Might he not have inserted his name at some point in the manuscript?'
(ch. 3). The novel is generated by the personal anagram, not once but
repeatedly. Thus the text-within-the-text word-puzzle that starts everything
off is 'a l'ENVERs' ('backwards'); the compass that determines all
movements underground is 'RENVErsee' ('reversed'); at the centre appears
a vast 'caVERNE'; within it movements are governed by the helm
('gouVERNail'); and the girl who at the centre of the quest is 'ViRlaNdaisE'
('from Virland'). The author lays bare his building-blocks, which in turn
refer to their own reversal of the letters constituting the novel. Verne
plays hide-and-seek, blatantly concealing himself at the centre of his text.
Another example of the textual self-reference is the change of narration
in chapters 32-5, where Axel's 'ship's log' replaces the after-theevent
narration. One of the functions of this 'journal' is to transcribe indications
of time and weather, and so to convey the monotony of a seajourney,
where there is no landscape to observe (a paradox in the interior
of the Earth). Another is to add to the suspense, for by definition the narrator-character
cannot know what is going to happen. The 'ship's log' also
enables convenient gaps to be inserted in the story when Axel remains
unconscious. But it is above all a stylistic experiment.
Axel's narration is in the present tense: despite appearances, however,
it is not really a 'logbook', 'journal', or 'diary', but a complex narration.
In fact Axel gives no general indication when he is writing, except
the contradictory 'daily. . . as it were at the dictation of events' (ch. 32).
French commentators have assumed that the events are meant to be
transcribed instantaneously and so have argued that writing notes in a
darkening storm is implausible. In fact the lengthy dream and the ex-
tended conversations can much less easily have been written down at the
time. But in any case Axel sometimes self-referentially reports his own
writing, whether of a note to Hans or of his own 'ship's log' and the writing
must precede the writing of the writing! The present tense, then, is
very far from indicating either an authentic diary or a simultaneity of
events and narration.
One consequence is on the description of the sea monsters. By using
the present tense, the problem of whether we are in past or present time
is avoided. The nineteenth century has become authentically prehistoric.
There are also further surprising consequences on notions of selfreference
and intentionality. Thus in the traditional mode of narration
there is a distinction between 'j'allais' ('I was going to') and 'j'allai' ('I
moved to. . .'), between subjective intention and objective action. But in
Verne's present, the two are collapsed down to 'je vais' (both 'I am going
to' and 'I move to. . .'). In sum, the pretence of a naive transcription cannot
be sustained. There is a temporal distance between the events and
the text. The transparency and self-referentiality of the present tense, the
equivalence between doing and reporting, the short-circuiting of the normal
process of narration, are only apparent. There is a narrator lurking in
the shadows. The keeper of the 'log-book' is just a character in his own
story after all.
The reader who expects Journey to the Centre of the Earth to be simple
is therefore in for a surprise. The novel might be described as a virtuoso
exercise in 'eversion': the complex topological process of turning a
body inside out. Things are not what they seem. Verne takes a perverse
pleasure in creating as many trails as possible - and diversions to throw
the pursuants off. It is almost as if he foresaw a scholarly edition of the
Journey, with the full apparatus of introduction and endnotes attempting
to explain what is going on. Not bad for a short-trousered writer without
style or substance!
I would like to thank Angela Brown and Katy Randle for their help with
the preparation of the manuscript. 

Note on the Translation

The text used for the present edition is based on the 1867 one used in
modern French editions (Livre de Poche, Garnier-Flammarion, Rencontre,
Hachette). The first edition (18) appeared on 25 November 1864, and
was unillustrated. As was usual, the illustrations were added only for the
first large-octavo edition (1867) (the seventh edition). But Journey to the
Centre of the Earth is unique in that Verne used this opportunity to add a
new section, chapters 37-39 (pp. xx-yy in the present text). What is also
very unusual is that the novel was not published first in serial form (Hetzel
only launched the Magasin d'Education et de Recreation in 1864).
The present translation is an entirely new one, benefiting from the
most recent scholarship on Verne. It aims to be faithful to the original (including
the absence of chapter titles and the retention of the mocklearned
footnotes). The use of phrases like 'he said' and 'he replied', of
exclamation marks and of semi-colons in ternary sentences has been
slightly reduced.
 In the early works Verne uses pre-Revolutionary measures like pieds,
lignes (1/12 of an inch), lieues and toises ('fathoms'). Throughout this
edition, British feet (about 7% smaller than the French ones), miles
(about 10% larger) and so on will be used. A few of Verne's figures have
consequently had to be slightly adjusted.
 Foreign-language words and place-names are erratic in the Voyages
extraordinaires, sometimes even internally inconsistent. These have normally
been corrected (for instance 'Snaefells' for 'Sneffels'). Some of
Verne's scientific and other learned terms do not seem authentic, whether
through error or deliberate mystification. In such cases an Anglicised
equivalent is given, but usually an endnote indicates its absence from the
dictionaries.
 A recurrent problem in translating Verne is his delight in reactivating
fixed expressions, by subtly altering them or by implying a literal meaning.
In such cases, the aim has been to retain the ambiguity or else find a
happy medium between the two possible senses.
 In this edition, unlike previous translations, the present tense has
been retained throughout the 'logbook' section (chaps. 32-5).
The Manuscript
A manuscript of Journey to the Centre of the Earth was revealed to exist
in 1994.1
 This amazing find is of unparalleled importance for Verne studies.
Our knowledge of the novel, previously limited to the 1864 and 1867
edition, has suddenly become multi-layered and shifting: almost as if the
 1
 I would like to record my thanks here for the generosity of the Heritage
Book Shop of Los Angeles and the owner in allowing me exclusive access to part
of the MS. 
depths within the novel have opened up before our feet!2
 Brief details of
the variants in the manuscript are therefore revealed here for the first
time.3
The printer's marks show that this was the last manuscript stage.
There are forty-three chapters, as in the 1864 edition, although chapter
breaks are sometimes different. On the folios seen (1-32, 99-104, 131-
59, and 191-3), one can observe a large number of deletions and insertions,
especially in the opening chapters. Some are stylistic, such as 'he
had had the time to throw', a 'you see' from the narrator, and the professor's
'rhomboid' window-panes. But 'the pretty firland [sic] girl' here lives
on 'Firlander-strasse'; and Sainte-Claire Deville is absent from the scientists
who have visited Lidenbrock, with an unidentified 'Banral(?)' appearing
instead. Axel above all comments on 'Professor Lidenbrocks selfishness:
'and provided he was enlightened, he couldn't give a fig about
enlightening.' The uncle is sarcastically called 'monsieur', he swears
('Malediction!'), and to interrupt Axel's daydream, he strikes his shoulder
(1864: 'the table'). His locking up of the starving Axel and Martha is
clearer: 'What key? The door key? No!' Even his reaction to the cracking
of the code is different: 'His nervous system, like that of a top, was trembling
with electricity. I would have been afraid to touch him. This went on
for quite some time.' A hint of homosexuality may appear in 'M. Christensen,
consul in Hamburg and very close friend of the professor's' although
the scurrilous 'He lived with Martha the maid and me' implies Martha
might be Axel's mother! Even Lidenbrock's house is sardonically 'in the
centre of the most horrible part of Hamburg, unfortunately unharmed by
the fire in 1842'.
The runic document is also quite different in the manuscript. Like
Lidenbrock's financially challenged Treatise, the Heimskringla is for the
moment modestly 'octavo'; and a large number of details in the cryptic
message are not the same. But the most interesting revelations are to do
with the object of Axel's passion. She is 'pale-skinned', and 'each day arrive[s]
with flowers'. It is Grauben who emerges after the professor's enraged
exit and who, after Martha disappears, stays in the house alone
with Axel. What they do for sixteen lines (perhaps the same as during the
'detours' on the way home) is unfortunately deleted. But Axel's message,
when decoded, is guaranteed to shock Lidenbrock more: 'Love me, my
pretty Grauben, love me' Axel had already admitted that 'I was rather
frivolous'. And the response duly comes: '"What is this Grauben doing
xx," asked my uncle for the second time'; to which Axel weakly but surprisingly
replies: 'It is some homework (?) from the Johannaeum.' After
the professor returns to the document, there follow three illegible lines,
ending with a harsh and Hamlet-like '... abruptly his interminable soliloquy'.

 2
 A complete publication of the MS would be a vital addition to the understanding
of Verne.
3
 For reasons of space, a note on p. 231 provides information about the MS
version of the underground cavern. 
Again, Axel tells Martha that they are going 'to hell!'; the total number
of active volcanoes remaining is only 'about fifteen'; the temperature inside
the Earth is 'two million degrees'; the expedition seems 'the craziest
... of the 19th century'; Altona is a 'town on the border with Denmark';
and, as they leave, Axel holds Grauben in his arms, 'under the somewhat
tender gaze of my uncle'!
The manuscript, in sum, is a unique tool for understanding the often
invisible 'fault-lines' of the novel.
Note about the Underground Cavern in the Manuscript
Both the cavern and Lidenbrock are different in the MS, as are many
of the dates. The variants include the idea that, compared to the cavern,
Guacharo [sic] and Mammoth caves are 'simple grottoes, narrow cavities';
the description of the Lidenbrock Sea as a mere 'lake', in 'this subterranean
land'; the world on the surface as the 'globe'; and the notion that
superman Hans may even have snatched a few hours' sleep on the raft.
Again, Axel's reaction to the concept of the Earth as a vast hollow sphere
containing two planets is a biting 'Pure imagination! of a Briton'. And an
important pseudo-learned footnote on fo. 142 reveals the source for the
first living creatures found underground: 'Professor Lidenbrock is here using
the classification proposed by Professor Agassiz for fossil fish, based
on the layout, nature, and form of the scales.' Louis Agassiz (1807-73)
was a Swiss-American zoologist and geologist, the anti-Darwinian author
of a five-vol. Research on Fossil Fish (1833-44) and four-vol. Contributions
to the Natural History of the United States (1857-62); his Voyage au
Bresil (1868) inspired Verne's The Giant Raft (1881).
The Sea is 'cold but freshwater', although this is then amended to
'salt'; the prehistoric bones are conserved by 'lime carbonate'; there appears
a rude remark that the prehistoric monsters 'reproduced for a long
time'; and the megatherium 'rummag[es] in the ground with its forward
members', a brilliantly obscene remark calculated to enrage Hetzel. What
is more, parts of the log-book are in the past tenses, in marked contrast
with the published stylistic experiment of the present tense.
The bulk of the variants, however, are again to do with the professor.
Axel suggests his uncle is teasing him; and repeatedly describes him as
highly impatient. But when Lidenbrock is concerned about Axel's illness,
he actually calls him 'my nephew' and Axel notes: 'My uncle was considering
me attentively.' In the MS, Lidenbrock allows his nephew to lead the
way into the giant mushroom forest and they almost get lost for ever.
But he reverts to type whenever his impatience or worry returns. He
laughs 'nervously'; and often appears ridiculous through intemperate predictions.
Thus he argues that it is 'not probable' that living monsters survive
in the cavern; he estimates the size of the ocean to be 'ten or fifteen
leagues at the very most'; and concludes: 'we are bound to find the opposite
shores soon.' He also prophesies that they will reach the centre: 'I am
certain to find new ways out that will lead us to our objective.' Even his
scientific reasoning seems faulty: 'Six atmospheres, and you can see that 
this pressure does not bother us. It is because our bodies have got used
to it imperceptibly.'
Perhaps to compensate, the professor is the vehicle for two important
speeches in the MS. Our final assessment of him, then, is undoubtedly
some combination of scorn and admiration:
Yes, my boy, these strata of lignites come. . . also from the tropical
essences of the New World: these fossil woods were torn from the
European or American landmasses, thrown on to the coast of Iceland
by the vigorous current of the Gulf Stream, and then slowly mineralized
under the influence of the sea water, before a still-inexplicable
cataclysm dragged them down here.
'What an effect if the British Isles were to collapse into a chasm
forty leagues deep!' / 'Oh! the British would invent themselves machines
to get them out again! But there is no question of such a convulsion
happening. What counts is to know what we are going to do
here and now.' 
Select Bibliography
Among the modern French editions, Livre de poche, with 44 of the
seventy-odd volumes, has been the usual reference edition. In 1988,
however, Hachette completed publication of the Voyages extraordinaires
at a very reasonable price. Michel de l'Ormeraie and Rencontre (reprinted
by Edito-Service) are the only other complete editions since the original
Hetzel one.
 The only British scholarly books on Verne published to date are: Andrew
Martin's The Mask of the Prophet: The extraordinary fictions of Jules
Verne (Oxford Univ. Press, 1990) and William Butcher's Verne's Journey
to the Centre of the Self: Space and time in the 'Voyages extraordinaires'
(Macmillan, 1990). Arthur B. Evans's Jules Verne Rediscovered: Didacticism
and the scientific novel (Greenwood Press, New York, 1988) is also
worth consulting.
 Among the French critics, Francois Raymond and Daniel Compere's Le
Developpement des etudes sur Jules Verne (Minard (Archives des lettres
modernes), 1976) is still the most readable introduction to 'Vernian Studies'.
There are many stimulating collections of articles, notably: L'Herne:
Jules Verne, ed. P. A. Touttain (L'Herne, 1974), Colloque de Cerisy: Jules
Verne et les sciences humaines, ed. Francois Raymond and Simone Vierne
(Union generale d'editions, 1979), the six volumes of the Minard (Lettres
Modernes) series on Verne, especially Machines et imaginaire (1980) and
Texte, image, spectacle (1983), and Modernites de Jules Verne, ed. Jean
Bessiere (Presses Univ. de France, 1988).
 The following volumes are also useful: Jean Chesneaux, Une Lecture
politique de Jules Verne (Maspero, 1971, 1982), translated as The Political
and Social Ideas of Jules Verne (Thames and Hudson, 1972), Simone
Vierne, Jules Verne (Balland (Phares), 1986), Alain Froidefond, Voyages
au centre de l'horloge: Essai sur un texte-genese, 'Maitre Zacharius' (Minard,
1988) and Olivier Dumas, Jules Verne (La Manufacture, Lyon,
1988).
 The best biography is Jean Jules-Verne, Jules Verne (Hachette,
1973), translated and adapted by Roger Greaves as Jules Verne: A biography
(MacDonald and Jane's, 1976). But there are also Charles-Noel
Martin, La vie et l'oeuvre de Jules Verne (Michel de l'Ormeraie, 1978) and
Marc Soriano, Jules Verne (le cas Verne) (Julliard, 1978).
 Studies specifically on Journey to the Centre of the Earth include the
well-organised Daniel Compere, Un Voyage imaginaire de Jules Verne:
Voyage au centre de la Terre (Minard (Archives Jules Verne), 1977),
Christian Chelebourg, 'Le paradis des fossiles', pp. 213-27, in Modernites
de Jules Verne, and Andrew Martin, The Knowledge of Ignorance: From
Genesis to Jules Verne, pp. 137-41 and passim (Cambridge Univ. Press,
1985), plus the relevant sections of Butcher, Jules-Verne, Vierne and of
the L'Herne, Minard (Lettres Modernes), and Presses Universitaires de
France volumes. 
[All places of publication are London or Paris unless otherwise indicated.] 
A Chronology of Jules Verne
1828 8 February: birth of Jules Verne on Ile Feydeau in Nantes, to
Pierre Verne, a lawyer and son and grandson of lawyers, and
Sophie, nee Allotte de la Fuye, of distant Scottish descent.
Both parents have links with reactionary milieux and the slave
trade. The family moves to Quai Jean-Bart, with a magnificent
view of the Loire.
1829-30 Birth of brother, Paul, later a naval officer and stockbroker;
followed by sisters Anna (1836), Mathilde (1839), and Marie
(1842). Jules hears shots from street battles in the July Revolution.

1833-7 Goes to boarding school: the teacher is the widow of a
sea-captain, whose return she is still waiting for. The Vernes
spend the summers in bucolic countryside with a buccaneer
uncle.
1837-41 Ecole Saint-Stanislas. Performs well in geography, translation
from Greek and Latin, and singing. During the holidays, the
Vernes stay at Chantenay, on the Loire.
1841-6 Petit seminaire de Saint-Donitien, then College royal de Nantes.
Above average; probably wins a prize in geography. Easily
passes baccalaureat. Writes short prose pieces.
1847 Studies law in Paris; his cousin, Caroline Tronson, with whom
he has long been unhappily in love, marries. Experiences a
fruitless passion for Herminie Arnault-Grossetiere and writes
more than fifty poems, many dedicated to her, plus Alexandre
VI and Un Pretre en 1839 ('A Priest in 1839').
1848 June: revolution in Paris. Verne is present at the July disturbances.
Herminie Arnault-Grossetiere gets married. Continues
his law studies. In the literary salons meets Dumas pere and
fils. Writes plays, including La Conspiration des poudres ('The
Gunpowder Plot').
1849 Passes law degree. Father allows him to stay on in Paris.
Writes more plays. Organizes a dining club called The Eleven
Bachelors, reciting his love poetry to them.
1850 His one-act comedy Les Pailles rompues ('Broken Straws')
runs for twelve nights at Dumas's Theatre historique, and is
published.
1851 Meets author Jacques Arago and explorers and scientists and
frequents Adrien Talexy's musical salon. Publishes short stories
'Les Premiers navires de la Marine mexicaine' ('A Drama
in Mexico') and 'Un Voyage en ballon' ('Drama in the Air'). Has
a first attack of facial paralysis.
1852-5 Becomes secretary of the Theatre lyrique, on little or no pay.
Refuses to take over his father's practice: 'Literature above
all.' Publishes 'Martin Paz', 'Maitre Zacharius' ('Master 
Zacharius'), 'Un Hivernage dans les glaces' ('Wintering in the
Ice'), and the play Les Chateaux en Californie ('Castles in
California') in collaboration with Pitre-Chevalier. His operetta
Le Colin-maillard ('Blind Man's Bluff'), with Michel Carre, is
performed to music by Aristide Hignard. Visits brothels in the
theatre district.
1856 20 May: goes to a wedding in Amiens, and meets a young
widow with two children, Honorine de Viane.
1857 10 January: marries Honorine, becomes a stockbroker in
Paris, and moves several times.
1859-60 Visits Scotland and England, and is decisively marked by the
experience. Writes Voyage en Angleterre et en Ecosse (Backwards
to Britain).
1861 15 June-8 August: travels to Norway and Denmark.
 3 August: birth of only child, Michel.
1863 31 January: Cinq semaines en ballon (Five Weeks in a Balloon)
appears, three months after submission to publisher
Jules Hetzel, and is an immediate success.
1864 New one-book contract with Hetzel. Publication of 'Edgar Poe
et ses oeuvres' ('Edgar Allan Poe and his Works'), Voyages et
aventures du capitaine Hatteras (Adventures of Captain Hatteras),
and Voyage au centre de la Terre (Journey to the Centre
of the Earth). Paris au XX e
 siecle (Paris in the Twentieth
Century) is brutally rejected by Hetzel. Moves to Auteuil and
begins to give up his unsuccessful stockbroker partnership.
1865 De la Terre a la Lune (From the Earth to the Moon), Les Enfants
du capitaine Grant (Captain Grant's Children), and 'Les
Forceurs de blocus' ('The Blockade Runners'). A new contract
specifies 200,000 words a year.
1866 Geographie de la France et de ses colonies.
1867 16 March: goes with brother to Liverpool, thence on the Great
Eastern to the United States. First English translation of any
of the novels, From the Earth to the Moon.
1868 Buys a boat, the Saint-Michel. Visits London.
1869 Vingt mille lieues sous les mers (Twenty Thousand Leagues
under the Seas), Autour de la Lune (Round the Moon), and
Decouverte de la Terre ('Discovery of the Earth'). Rents a
house in Amiens.
1870 Hetzel rejects L'Oncle Robinson ('Uncle Robinson'), an early
version of L'Ile mysterieuse (The Mysterious Island). Death at
29 of Estelle Duchesnes of Asnieres, reportedly Verne's love.
During the Franco-Prussian War, Verne is a coastguard at Le
Crotoy (Somme).
1871 Verne briefly goes back to the Stock Exchange.
 3 November: father dies. 
1872 Le Tour du monde en quatre-vingts jours (Around the World
in Eighty Days) and The Fur Country. Becomes member of
Academie d'Amiens.
1873-4 Le Docteur Ox (Dr Ox's Experiment, and Other Stories), L'Ile
mysterieuse (The Mysterious Island), and Le Chancellor (The
Chancellor). Begins collaboration with Adolphe d'Ennery on
highly successful stage adaptations of novels (Le Tour du
monde en 80 jours (1874), Les Enfants du capitaine Grant
(1878), Michel Strogoff (1880) ). Moves to 44 boulevard
Longueville, Amiens.
1876-7 Michel Strogoff (Michael Strogoff, the Courier of the Tsar),
Hector Servadac, and Les Indes noires (The Child of the Cavern).
Buys second, then third boat, the Saint-Michel II and III.
Gives huge fancy-dress ball. Wife critically ill, but recovers.
Michel rebels, and is sent to a reformatory. Rene de Pont-Jest
sues Verne for plagiarism in Voyage au centre de la Terre.
1878 Un Capitaine de quinze ans (The Boy Captain). Sails to Lisbon
and Algiers.
1879-80 Les Cinq cents millions de la Begum (The Begum's Fortune),
Les Tribulations d'un Chinois en Chine (The Tribulations of a
Chinese in China), and La Maison a vapeur (The Steam
House). Verne sails to Edinburgh and visits the Hebrides.
Probably has an affair with Luise Teutsch.
1881 La Jangada (The Giant Raft). Sails to Rotterdam and Copenhagen.

1882 Le Rayon vert (The Green Ray) and L'Ecole des Robinsons
(The School for Robinsons). Moves to a larger house at 2 rue
Charles-Dubois, Amiens.
1883-4 Keraban-le-tetu (Keraban the Inflexible). Michel marries, but
soon abducts a minor. He will have two children by her within
eleven months. Verne leaves with his wife on a grand tour of
the Mediterranean, but cuts it short. On the way back, is received
in private audience by Pope Leo XIII.
1885 Mathias Sandorf. Sells Saint-Michel III.
1886 Robur-le-conquerant (The Clipper of the Clouds).
9 March: his nephew Gaston, mentally ill, reportedly asks for
money to travel to Britain. Verne refuses, and Gaston fires
twice, laming him for life.
 17 March: Hetzel dies.
1887 Mother dies. Nord contre sud (North against South).
1888 Deux ans de vacances (Two Years Vacation). Elected local
councillor on a Republican list. For next fifteen years attends
council meetings, administers theatre and fairs, opens Municipal
Circus (1889), and gives public talks.
1889 Sans dessus dessous (The Purchase of the North Pole) and 'In
the Year 2889' (signed Jules Verne but written by Michel).
1890 Stomach problems. 
1892 Le Chateau des Carpathes (Carpathian Castle). Pays debts for
Michel.
1895 L'Ile a helice (Propeller Island), the first novel in a European
language in the present tense and third person.
1896-7 Face au drapeau (For the Flag) and Le Sphinx des glaces (An
Antarctic Mystery). Sued by chemist Turpin, inventor of melinite,
depicted in Face au drapeau, but is successfully defended
by Raymond Poincare, later president of France. Health deteriorates.
Brother dies.
1899 Dreyfus Affair: Verne is initially anti-Dreyfusard, but approves
of the case being reviewed.
1901 Le Village aerien (The Village in the Treetops). Moves back
into 44 boulevard Longueville.
1904 Maitre du monde (The Master of the World).
1905 17 March: falls ill from diabetes.
 24 March: dies. The French government is not represented at
the funeral.
1905-14 On Verne's death, L'Invasion de la mer (Invasion of the Sea)
and Le Phare du bout du monde (Lighthouse at the End of the
World) are in the course of publication. Michel takes responsibility
for the manuscripts, publishing Le Volcan d'or (The
Golden Volcano 1906), L'Agence Thompson and C (The
Thompson Travel Agency 1907), La Chasse au meteore (The
Hunt for the Meteor 1908), Le Pilote du Danube (The Danube
Pilot 1908), Les Naufrages du 'Jonathan' (The Survivors of
the Jonathan 1909), Le Secret de Wilhelm Storitz (The Secret
of Wilhelm Storitz 1910), Hier et Demain (Yesterday and
Tomorrow short stories, including 'Le Humbug' (Humbug)
and 'L'Eternel Adam' ('Edom') 1910), and L'Etonnante aventure
de la mission Barsac (The Barsac Mission 1914). Between
1985 and 1993 the original (i.e. Jules's) versions are
published, under the same titles except for En Magellanie (In
the Magallanes), 'Voyage d'etudes' ('Study Visit'), and Le
Beau Danube jaune ('The Beautiful Yellow Danube').
1978 For the 150th anniversary of his birth, the novelist undergoes
a major re-evaluation in France, with hundreds of editions and
thousands of articles, PhDs, and books about them. On a cumulative
basis, Verne is the most translated writer of all time.
1989-94 Backwards to Britain, 'Uncle Robinson', 'A Priest in 1839', '
'San Carlos' and other Stories', and Paris in the Twentieth
Century, which sets a US record for a French book. 
JOURNEY TO THE
CENTRE OF THE EARTH 
1
On 24 May 1863, a Sunday, my uncle, Professor Lidenbrock,4 came
rushing back towards his little house at No. 19 Konigstrasse, one of the
oldest streets in the historic part of Hamburg.
Martha the maid must have thought she was running very late, for
dinner had hardly begun to simmer on the kitchen range.
'H'm,' I said to myself. 'If my uncle is hungry, he'll shout out his annoyance,
for he is the most impatient of men.'
'Professor Lidenbrock here already!' Martha exclaimed in amazement,
half-opening the dining-room door.
'Yes, indeed. But dinner has every right not to be cooked, for it's not
two o'clock yet. It's only just struck the half-hour on St Michael's.'
'Then why has Professor Lidenbrock come back?'
'Presumably he will tell us.'
'Here he is: I'm off, Master Axel.5 You will make him see reason, won't
you?'
And the good Martha disappeared back into her culinary laboratory.
I remained alone. But to make the worst-tempered of professors see
reason did not seem possible, given my slightly indecisive character. So I
was getting ready for a prudent retreat to my little bedroom at the top of
the house, when the front door groaned on its hinges. Large feet made
the wooden staircase creak, and the master of the house came through
the dining-room and burst into his study.
On his hurried way through, though, he had thrown his nutcrackerhead
cane in the corner, his broad hat brushed up the wrong way on the
table, and ringing words to his nephew:
'Axel, I'm here!'
I hadn't had time to move before the professor shouted again, in a
most impatient voice:
'We-ell? Are you not here yet?'
I rushed into my formidable master's study.
Otto Lidenbrock was not a bad man, I will gladly concede. But unless
changes happen to him, which is highly unlikely, he will die a terrible eccentric.

 4 Lidenbrock: Lid is German for 'eye-lid', brocken, 'crumb, lump (of coal) or
scrap' or 'to pluck'; cf. also Leyden jar.
5 Axel: perhaps from axe ('axis'); also 'lexa' ('words') backwards. 
He was a professor at the Johanneum,6
 and gave a course on mineralogy,
during which he normally got angry at least once or twice. Not that
he was worried whether his students were assiduous at his lectures, or
whether they paid attention, or whether they were successful later: he
hardly bothered with these details. He lectured 'subjectively', to use the
expression from German philosophy, for himself and not for others. He
was a learned egoist and a selfish scholar, a well of science whose handle
groaned whenever someone wanted to draw something out of it: in a
word, a miser.
In Germany there are one or two professors like this.
Unfortunately my uncle suffered from a slight pronunciation problem,
if not in private, at least when speaking in public: a regrettable handicap
for an orator. Thus, during his demonstrations at the Johanneum, often
the professor would stop short. He would struggle with a recalcitrant word
which his mouth refused to pronounce, one of those words which resist,
swell up, and end up coming out in the unscientific form of a swear-word.
Then he would get very angry.
Now, in mineralogy there are many learned words, half-Greek, halfLatin,
and always difficult to pronounce, many unpolished terms that
would scorch a poet's lips. I do not wish to criticise this science. Far from
it. But when one is in the presence of rhombohedral crystallisations, retinasphalt
resins, gehlenites, fangasites,7
 lead molybdates, manganese
tungstates, or zircon titanites, the most agile tongue is allowed to get tied
in knots.
The townspeople knew about this pardonable disability of my uncle's,
and took unfair advantage. They watched out for the difficult sections,
and he got furious, and they laughed; which is not in good taste, even for
Germans. And if there was always a healthy attendance at Lidenbrock's
lectures, how many followed them regularly simply in order to enjoy the
professor's terrible outbursts!
But despite all this, my uncle was an authentic scholar I cannot emphasise
this too much. Although he sometimes broke his samples by handling
them too roughly, he combined the geologist's talent with the mineralogist's
eye. With his mallet, his steel spike, his magnetic needle, his
blowlamp, and his flask of nitric acid, he was highly gifted. From the fracture,
appearance, resistance, melting-point, sound, smell, and taste of
any given mineral, he could put it without hesitation into any one of the
six hundred categories recognised by modern science.
Lidenbrock's name was accordingly very much honoured in the gymnasiums
and learned societies. Sir Humphry Davy, Humboldt, and Captains
Franklin and Sabine8 made sure they visited him on their way
 6 the Johanneum: a famous classical grammar school, founded in Hamburg
in 1529 and still in existence.
7 ghelenites, fangasites: neither word seems to be in the dictionaries. The
first may even be gelignites ('gelinites' is a variant spelling in French).
8 Davy: see note in ch. 6; Humboldt: Baron von Friedrich H. A. (1769-1859),
German naturalist and traveller, also worked in Paris, author notably of Kosmos
through Hamburg. Messrs Becquerel, Ebelmen, Brewster, Dumas, MilneEdwards,
and Sainte-Claire Deville9 liked to consult him on the most
stimulating questions in chemistry. That science owed him some wonderful
discoveries. In 1853 there had appeared in Leipzig a Treatise upon
Transcendental Crystallography by Professor O. Lidenbrock, printed in
large-folio pages with plates but without covering its costs.
Add to that that my uncle was the curator of the mineralogical museum
of Mr Struve, the Russian ambassador, which was a valuable collection
much esteemed throughout Europe.
Such was the character calling for me so impatiently. Imagine a tall,
thin man, with an iron constitution and youthful blond hair that made him
look a good ten years younger than his fifty. His big eyes darted incessantly
around behind imposing glasses; his nose, long and thin, was like a
sharpened blade; unkind people even claimed that it was magnetised, and
picked up iron filings. Absolute slander: it only picked up snuff, but in
rather large quantities to tell the truth.
If I add that my uncle took mathematical strides of exactly three feet,
and that, while walking, he firmly clenched his fists the sign of an impetuous
temperament then you will know him well enough not to wish to
spend too much time in his company.
He lived in his little house on Konigstrasse, a half-wood, half-brick
construction with a crenellated gable-end. It looked out on to one of the
winding canals that criss-cross in the centre of the oldest part of Hamburg,
fortunately unharmed by the fire of 1842.
The old house leaned a little, it is true, it pushed its stomach out at
the passers-by, and it wore its roof over one ear, like the cap of a
Tugendbund10 student. The harmony of its lines could have been better,
then; but, all things considered, it held up well, thanks to an old elm, vigorously
embedded in the facade, which, each springtime, used to push its
flowering blossoms through the latticed windows.
My uncle was not poor, not for a German professor. The house was
entirely his, both building and contents. The latter consisted of his god-

(1845), an essay on the physical constitution of the globe; Franklin: Sir John
(1786-1847), British arctic explorer, died after discovering Northwest Passage 
as proved by an expedition later organized by his wife; Sabine: (later General)
Sir Edward (1788-1883), British astronomer, accompanied Ross and Parry to
Arctic 1818-20, specialist in terrestrial magnetism.
9 Becquerel: either Antoine Cesar (1788-1878), used electrolysis to isolate
metals from their ores, or possibly his son and assistant Alexander Edmond
(1820-91), researched into solar radiation and diamagnetism; Ebelmen: (Verne:
'Ebelman') Jacques Joseph (1814-52), French chemist who synthesized precious
stones; Brewster: probably Sir David (1781-1868), Scottish physicist, invented
the kaleidoscope; Dumas: Jean-Baptiste Andre (1800-84), French chemist,
noted for his research on vapour density and atomic weight; Milne-Edwards: see
note in ch. 37; Sainte-Claire Deville: Henri-Etienne (1818-81), chemist specializing
in aluminium, and brother of Charles (1814-76), French geologist and author
of Eruptions actuelles du volcan de Stromboli. 10 Tugendbund: 'League of Virtue' (1808-16). 
daughter Grauben, a seventeen-year-old girl from Virland,11 and Martha
and myself. In my dual capacity as nephew and orphan, I had become the
laboratory assistant for his experiments.
I will admit that I devoured geological science with great relish; I had
mineralogist's blood in my veins, and never felt bored in the company of
my precious pebbles.
In sum, life could be happy in this miniature house in Konigstrasse,
despite its owner's impatience; for, while setting about it in rather a
rough manner, he did not love me any the less. But the man had never
learned to wait, he was permanently in a hurry.
When, in April, he planted heads of mignonette or morning glory in
the china pots in his living-room, he would go and pull their leaves each
morning to make them grow faster.
With such an eccentric, the only thing to do was to obey. I accordingly
hurried into his study.
2
This study was a real museum. Specimens of the whole mineral order
could be found here, labelled in the most perfect order, following the
three great divisions into inflammable, metallic, and lithoidal minerals.
How well I knew them, these trinkets of mineralogical science; how
many times, instead of wasting my time with boys of my own age, I had
enjoyed dusting these graphites, these anthracites, these coals, these lignites,
and these peats. The bitumens, the resins, the organic salts which
had to be preserved from the least speck of dust. The metals, from iron to
gold, whose relative value didn't count beside the absolute equality of scientific
specimens. And all those stones, which would have been enough to
rebuild the whole house in Konigstrasse, even with a fine extra room,
which would have suited me to a T.
But when I went into the study, I was scarcely thinking about such
wonders. My uncle formed the sole focus of my thoughts. He was buried
in his large armchair covered with Utrecht velvet, holding a tome in both
hands and studying it with the deepest admiration.
'What a book, what a book!' he kept saying.
This exclamation reminded me that Professor Lidenbrock was a fanatical
book collector in his spare time. But a volume had no value in his eyes
unless it was unfindable or, at the very least, unreadable.
'Well?' he said. 'Do you not see? It's a priceless gem I discovered this
morning while poking around in the shop of Hevelius the Jew.'
'Magnificent,' I replied, with forced enthusiasm.
 11 Grauben: Verne wrote 'Grauben' throughout, but, in line with normal German
practice, this has been changed to 'Grauben': graben (in English and in
French), 'an elongated depression between geologic faults'; Grauen, 'horror,
dread'; uben, 'to drill or exercise; from Virland: Verne's choice may be motivated
by puns based on ViRlanDaisE and on 'Vinland' (the Scandinavian colony
in N. America, c.1100, settled from Iceland) + vir (Latin for 'man'; cf. 'virile' it
is Grauben who wears the trousers). 
What was the point of making such a fuss about an old quarto book
whose spine and covers seemed to be made out of coarse vellum, a yellowish
book from which hung a faded tassel?
The professor's exclamations of admiration didn't stop, however.
'Look,' he said, addressing both the questions and the replies to himself,
'isn't it beautiful? Yes, it's wonderful, and what a binding! Does the
book open easily? Yes, it stays open at any page whatsoever. But does it
close well? Yes, because the cover and leaves form a unified whole, without
separating or gaping anywhere. And this spine, which does not have a
single break after seven hundred years of existence. Oh, it's a binding to
have made Bozerian, Closs, or Purgold12 proud!'
While speaking, my uncle was alternately opening and closing the old
book. The only thing I could do was ask him about its contents, though
they didn't interest me a single bit.
'And what's the title of this marvellous volume?' I asked with too eager
an enthusiasm to be genuine.
'This work', replied my uncle, getting excited, 'is the Heims-kringla of
Snorri Sturluson,13 the famous twelfth-century Icelandic author. It is the
chronicle of the Norwegian princes who ruled over Iceland.'
'Really,' I exclaimed as well as I could. 'It's presumably a German
translation?'
'What!' the professor replied animatedly. 'A translation! What would I
be doing with your translation? Who's bothered about your translation?
This is the original work, in Icelandic: that magnificent language, both
simple and rich, containing the most diverse grammatical combinations as
well as numerous variations in the words.'
'Like German?' I slipped in, fortuitously.
'Yes,' replied my uncle shrugging his shoulders, 'not to mention that
Icelandic has three genders, like Greek, and declensions of proper nouns,
like Latin.'
'Ah,' I said, my indifference a little shaken, 'and are the characters in
this book handsome?'
'Characters? Who's speaking of characters, benighted Axel! You did
say "characters", did you not? Oh, so you are taking this for a printed
book? Ignoramus, this is a manuscript, and a runic14 manuscript at that.'
 12 Bozerian: (Verne: 'Bozerian') two brothers who produced luxurious bindings
in Paris at the time of Napoleon. Closs and Purgold were also nineteenthcentury
bookbinders.
13 Snorre Turleson: Snorri Sturluson (1179-1241), politician and historian,
wrote a saga of St Olaf, rejecting some of the grosser hagiographical elements in
his sources: this work forms the central part of his Heimskringla ('The Circle of
the Universe'), chronicling Norse mythology and early history. At this time,
books in Iceland were entirely made out of vellum, not just the covers.
14 runic: Verne saw runic characters on stone inscriptions near Oslo in 1861.
In 1875, he said that he based his runes on those of an illustration in L'Univers
pittoresque. The characters here resemble only superficially the runes used in
Scandinavia from about 450 to the 1200s (and in Anglo-Saxon Britain between 
'Runic?'
'Yes. Are you now going to ask me to explain this word as well?'
'There is certainly no need,' I replied in the tone of a man wounded in
his pride.
But my uncle continued all the more, and told me things, despite my
opposition, that I wasn't specially interested in knowing.
'Runes', he said, 'were handwritten characters formerly used in Iceland
and, according to the tradition, were invented by Odin himself. But
look, irreverent boy, admire these forms which sprang from a god's
imagination.'
I swear that, having no other reply to give, I was going to prostrate
myself, the sort of response that necessarily pleases gods and kings, because
it has the advantage of never embarrassing them when an incident
happened to set the course of the conversation off on a different
path.
This was the appearance of a filthy parchment, which slid out of the
book and fell to earth.
My uncle rushed to pick up this knick-knack with an eagerness easy to
understand. An old document locked up in an old book since time immemorial
could not fail to have a signal value in his eyes.
'But what is it?' he exclaimed.
At the same time he carefully spread the parchment out on his desk.
It was five inches long and three inches wide, with horizontal lines of
mumbo-jumbo-style characters written on it.
The following is the exact facsimile. It is important that these bizarre
forms be known, because they were to lead Professor Lidenbrock and his
nephew to undertake the strangest expedition the nineteenth century has
ever known:
The professor examined the series of characters for a few moments.
Then he said, lifting up his glasses:
'They're runes the forms are absolutely identical to those in Snorri
Sturluson's manuscript. But what can it all mean?'
As runes seemed to me to be an invention by scholars to mystify the
poor rest-of-the-world, I wasn't displeased to see that my uncle didn't
understand anything. At least, that seemed to be the case from his
hands, which had begun to shake terribly.
'And yet it is Old Icelandic!' he muttered through clenched teeth.
And Professor Lidenbrock surely knew what he was talking about, for
he was reputed to be a genuine polyglot: not that he spoke fluently the
two thousand languages and four thousand dialects employed on the surface
of this globe, but he did know his fair share.
Faced with such a difficulty, he was just about to give in to all the impulsiveness
of his character, and I could foresee a violent scene, when
two o'clock sounded on the wall-clock over the mantelpiece.
Martha immediately opened the study door.

650 and 1100). They were known to few people, hence were thought to have
occult powers. 
'The soup is served.'
'The devil take your soup,' shouted my uncle. 'And the person who
made it. And those who will drink it.'
Martha fled. I followed closely behind and, without knowing quite how,
found myself sitting at my usual place in the dining-room.
I waited for a few moments: the professor didn't come. It was the first
time, to my knowledge, that he was missing the ceremony of dinner. And
what a dinner, moreover! Parsley soup, ham omelette with sorrel and
nutmeg, loin of veal with plum sauce;15 with, for pudding, prawns in
sugar; the whole lot being washed down with a good moselle.
That was what an old bit of paper was going to cost my uncle. By
George, in my capacity as devoted nephew, I considered it my duty to eat
for both him and me; which I did, very conscientiously.
'I've never known such a thing,' said Martha. 'Professor Lidenbrock not
at table.'
'It's unbelievable.'
'It portends some serious happening,' said the old servant, shaking
her head.
In my opinion, it portended nothing at all, except for a terrible scene
when my uncle found his dinner already eaten.
I was just on the last prawn when a resounding voice called me from
the delights of pudding. I was in the study in a single bound.
3
'It's quite obviously runic,' said the professor, knitting his brows. 'But
there is a secret and I am going to discover it. If not. . . '
A violent gesture completed his thought.
'Sit down', he added, indicating the table with his fist, 'and write.'
In a moment I was ready.
'Now I'm going to dictate the letter in our alphabet corresponding to
each of the Icelandic characters. We will see what that gives. But, by God,
be careful not to make a mistake.'
The dictation began. I concentrated as hard as I could. Each letter was
spelled out one after the other, to form the incomprehensible succession
of words that follows:
mm.rnllsesreuel seecJde
sgtssmf unteief niedrke
kt,samnatrateS Saodrrn
emtnael nuaect rrilSa
Atvaar .nscrc ieaabs
ccdrmi eeutul frantu
dt,iac oseibo KediiY
 15 loin of veal with plum sauce . . . prawns in sugar: this would seem to be
poking fun at the tendency of some northern nations to eat sweet things with
meat. But it may also be a sign of the diabetes that Verne was later to contract. 
When this work was finished, my uncle eagerly snatched up the sheet
on which I had been writing, and examined it for a long time with great
care.
'What does it mean?' he kept automatically repeating.
I swear I couldn't have told him anything. In any case he wasn't asking
me and continued speaking to himself:
'This is what we call a cipher, in which the meaning is hidden in letters
which have deliberately been mixed up, and which, if properly laid out,
would form an intelligible sentence. When I think that there is perhaps
here the explanation or indication of a great discovery!'
For my part, I thought there was absolutely nothing, but kept my
opinions carefully to myself.
The professor then took the book and the parchment and compared
them with each other.
'The two documents are not in the same hand. The cipher is posterior
to the book for I can see an immediate and irrefutable proof: the first letter
is a double m16 that would be sought in vain in Sturluson's book, for it
was added to the Icelandic alphabet only in the fourteenth century. So
therefore at least two hundred years elapsed between the manuscript and
the document.'
That, I must admit, seemed quite logical.
'I am therefore led to think', said my uncle, 'that one of the owners of
the book must have written out the mysterious characters. But who the
devil was this owner? Might he not have inserted his name at some point
in the manuscript?'
My uncle lifted his glasses up, took a strong magnifying glass, and
carefully worked his way over the first few pages of the book. On the back
of the second one, the half-title page, he discovered a sort of stain,17
which to the naked eye looked like an ink-blot. However, looking closer, it
was possible to distinguish a few half-erased characters. My uncle realised
that this was the interesting part, so he concentrated on the blemish, and
with the help of his big magnifying glass he ended up distinguishing the
following symbols, runic characters which he spelled out without hesitation:

 16 double m: the corresponding rune is which, as Lidenbrock says, is intended
to equal a double m, whereas the other m's in the message are . The
French edition, nevertheless, gives 'm.rnlls': this has been corrected to
'mm.rnlls', in the light of Verne's own transcription of on the next page, namely
mm.
17 stain: there is an anecdote, reported by Maurice Metral in Sur les pas de
Jules Verne (Neuchatel, Nouvelle BibliothPque, 1963), that Verne found the
faded log-book of a frigate captain called Pierre Leguerte; it had a bloodstain on
the last page, and he is meant to have often speculated what had happened to
the author. But Metral is often unreliable, and there is no supporting evidence
for this story. 
'Arne Saknussemm!'18 he cried in a triumphant voice. 'But that is a
name to conjure with, and an Icelandic one at that: the name of a scholar
of the sixteenth century, a celebrated alchemist.'
I looked at my uncle with a certain admiration.
'Those alchemists, Avicenna, Bacon, Lull, Paracelsus,19 were the veritable,
nay the only, scholars of their time. They made discoveries at
which we can reasonably be astonished. Why might this Saknussemm not
have hidden some surprising invention in the incomprehensible cryptogram?
That must be the case that is the case.'
The professor's imagination caught fire at his assumption.
'Perhaps it is,' I dared to reply. 'But what would be the point of a
scholar hiding a marvellous discovery in such a way?'
'Why? Why? How should I know? Galileo did he not act in this way
for Saturn?20 In any case, we shall soon see. I shall have the secret of
this document, and will neither eat nor sleep until I have discovered it.'
'Uh-oh,' I thought.
'Nor will you, Axel!'
'My God,' I thought to myself. 'What luck I ate for two!'
'First of all, we must find out the language of this cipher: it cannot be
difficult.'
At his words, I looked up quickly. My uncle continued his soliloquy:
'Nothing could be easier. There are 132 letters in the document, of
which seventy-nine are consonants and fifty-three vowels. Now the
southern languages conform approximately to this ratio, while the northern
tongues are infinitely richer in consonants: it is therefore a language
of the south.'
These conclusions were highly convincing.
'But what language is it?'
It was there that I expected to find a scholar, but discovered instead a
deep analyst.
'This Saknussemm', he said, 'was an educated man. Now, when he
was not writing in his mother tongue, he must naturally have chosen the
language customarily used amongst educated people of the sixteenth
 18 Arne Saknussemm: loosely based on Professor Arni Magnusson (1663-
1730), an Icelandic scholar, descended from Sturluson, who travelled on behalf
of the King of Denmark to collect the manuscripts of the Sagas and who always
wrote in Latin. Some of his material was destroyed during a fire at the University
of Copenhagen in 1728.
19 Avicenna: or Ibn Sina (980-1037), Islamic scientist and author of nearly
200 works; Bacon: Roger (1220-92), English philosopher and scientist, studied
optics and gunpowder, Franciscan, accused of dealing in black magic; Lull: Raymond
Lully (or Lull) (c.1232-1315), Spanish theologian and philosopher, author
of the 'Lullian method' towards systematic knowledge; Paracelsus: (1493-1541),
Swiss healer, advocated 'folk' and 'chemical' remedies to illness, and investigated
mining and minerals in the Tyrol.
20 Galileo did he not act in this way for Saturn?: Galileo's letter of 30 July
1610 used an anagram to hide the revelation that Saturn's ring was composed of
two satellites (information kindly provided by Sidney Kravitz). 
century I refer to Latin. If I am proved wrong, I can try Spanish, French,
Italian, Greek, or Hebrew. But the scholars of the sixteenth century generally
wrote in Latin. I have therefore the right to say, a priori, that this is
Latin.'
I almost jumped off my chair. My memories as a Latinist protested at
the claim that this baroque series of words could belong to the sweet language
of Virgil.
'Yes, Latin,' repeated my uncle, 'but Latin scrambled up.'
'What a relief,' I thought. 'If you can unscramble it again, you're a
genius, Uncle.'
'Let's have a proper look at it,' he said, again picking up the sheet on
which I had written. 'This is a series of 132 letters, presented in apparent
disorder. There are words where the consonants are encountered on their
own, like the first one, "mm.rnlls"; others in contrast where the vowels
are abundant, for example the fifth word, "unteief", or the second-butlast
one, "oseibo". Now the arrangement is clearly not deliberate. It is
given mathematically by the unknown formula governing the succession
of the letters. It seems certain to me that the original sentence must have
been written normally, then jumbled up following a rule we have yet to
discover. The person who got access to the key of the cipher would be
able to read it fluently: but what is this key? Axel, do you have the key?'
To his question I replied nothing, and for a good reason. I was gazing
at a charming portrait on the wall: one of Grauben. My uncle's ward was
then in Altona,21 staying with one of her relatives. Her absence made me
very sad, because, I can admit it now, the pretty little Virland girl and the
professor's nephew loved each other with all Germanic patience and calm.
We had got engaged without my uncle knowing he was too much of a
geologist to understand such feelings. Grauben was a charming girl,
blonde with blue eyes, of a slightly serious character; but she did not love
me any the less for that. For my part, I adored her if, that is, the word
exists in the Teutonic language. As a result of all this, the picture of my
little Virland girl immediately switched me from the world of reality to that
of daydreams, that of memories.
I was watching the faithful companion of my work and pleasure. Each
day she helped me organise my uncle's precious stones, and labelled
them with me. Miss Grauben was a very fine mineralogist. She would
have borne comparison with more than one scholar, for she loved getting
to the bottom of the driest scientific questions. How many charming hours
we had spent studying together; and how often I had been jealous of the
fate of the unfeeling stones that she had manipulated with her graceful
hands!
Then, when the time for recreation had come, the two of us would go
out. We used to walk through the bushy paths of the Alster22 and head
 21 Altona: Sartre's Les Sequestres d'Altona (1959) was set here, and the
stage directions indicate a nineteenth-century room; in the autobiographical Les
Mots (1963), Sartre repeatedly emphasizes his early passion for Verne.
22 the Alster: joins the Elbe in Hamburg. 
together for the old tar-covered mill which looked so fine at the far end of
the lake. On the way we would chat while holding hands. I would tell her
things and she would laugh heartily at them. In this way we would arrive
on the banks of the Elbe; then, having said goodnight to the swans gliding
around amongst the great white water lilies, we would come back by
steam ferry to the quayside.
I was just at this point in my daydream when my uncle, hitting the table
with his fist, brought me violently back to reality.
'Let's see,' he said. 'In order to mix up the letters of a sentence, it
seems to me that the first idea to come into one's mind ought to be to
write the words vertically instead of horizontally.'
'Clever . . . ' I thought.
'We must see what it produces. Axel, write any sentence at all on this
scrap of paper; but, instead of writing the letters one after the other, put
them in vertical columns made up of groups of fives or sixes.'
I understood what was required and immediately wrote from top to
bottom:
I y y l u
l o l e b
o u i G e
v , t r n
e m t a .
'Good,' said the professor without reading it. 'Now write these words
in a horizontal line.'
I did so and obtained the following sentence:
Iyylu loleb ouiGe v,trn emta.
'Perfect,' said my uncle, tearing the paper out of my hands. 'This is
beginning to look like the old document: the vowels and the consonants
are both grouped together in the same confusion. There are even capitals
in the middle of the words, and commas as well, just as in Saknussemm's
parchment.'
I couldn't help thinking that these remarks were highly ingenious.
'Now,' said my uncle again, addressing me directly, 'in order to read
the sentence that you have just written and which I do not know, all I
have to do is take the first letter of each successive word, then the second
letter, then the third, and so on.'
And my uncle, to his great amazement and even more to mine, read
out:
I love you, my little Grauben.
'H'm,' said the professor. Yes, without being aware of it, awkwardly in
love, I had written out this compromising sentence.
'Oh, so you're in love with Grauben, are you?' said my uncle in an authentic
guardian's tone.
'Yes. . . No. . . ' I spluttered.
'So you do love Grauben,' he said mechanically. 'Well, let's apply my
procedure to the document in question.' 
My uncle had returned to his engrossing ideas and had already forgotten
my risky words: I say 'risky' because the scholar's mind could never
understand the matters of the heart. But fortunately, the vital question of
the document took precedence.
Just before performing his critical experiment, Professor Lidenbrock's
eyes were throwing sparks out through his glasses. His hands trembled as
he picked the old parchment up again. He was profoundly excited. Finally
he coughed loudly, and in a solemn voice, calling out successively the first
letter of each word, then the second, he dictated the following series to
me:
mmessunkaSenrA.icefdoK.segnittamurtn
ecertserrette,rotaivsadua,ednecsedsadne
lacartniiiluJsiratracSarbmutabiledmek
meretarcsilucoYsleffenSnl
When he had finished I will admit that I was excited. These letters,
called out one after another, had not produced any meaning in my mind.
I was therefore waiting for the professor to produce pompously from his
mouth a sentence of Latin majesty.
But who could have foreseen it? A violent blow from his fist shook the
table. The ink spurted; the pen jumped from my hands.
'That's not it!' shouted my uncle. 'It makes no sense.'
Then, crossing the study like a cannon-ball and going downstairs like
an avalanche, he threw himself into Konigstrasse and shot off at a rate of
knots.
4
'Has he gone out?' shouted Martha, running up at the slam of the front
door, which had just shaken the house to its very foundations.
'Yes, completely gone!'
'But what about his dinner?'
'He's not having any!'
'And his supper?'
'No supper either!'
Clasping her hands: 'Pardon?'
'Yes, Martha, he's given up food, and so has the entire household. Uncle
Lidenbrock has put us all on a strict diet until he's deciphered a piece
of old mumbo-jumbo that is totally undecipherable!'
'Goodness, we'll all die of starvation!'
I didn't dare admit that with such an uncompromising individual as my
uncle, this fate seemed nigh on certain.
The old servant went back into the kitchen, looking very worried and
muttering.
Alone again, I thought of going to tell Grauben everything. But how
could I get out of the house? The professor might come back at any moment.
What if he summonsed me? Or if he wanted to start work again on 
that word-puzzle which even old Oedipus couldn't have solved?23 And if I
wasn't there when he called for me, what might happen then?
It was safest to stay put. As it happened, a mineralogist from Besan-
con had just sent us a collection of siliceous geodes that needed sorting
out. I set to work. I classified these hollow stones with their little crystals
moving inside, I prepared labels, I arranged them in the presentation
cases.
But this activity didn't require all my concentration. The problem of
the old document wouldn't stop disturbing me in a most peculiar fashion.
My head was swirling and I felt vaguely anxious. I had the feeling that
something terrible was about to happen.
An hour later, my geodes were stacked in neat little rows. I fell into
the massive Utrecht armchair, my arms lolling over the sides and my
head leaning back. I lit my pipe, the one with the long curved stem and
the bowl carved into a casually reclining water-nymph; and then had
great fun watching it burn, slowly converting my nymphette into an unalloyed
negress. From time to time I listened out for steps hammering up
the stairs. But none came. Where could my uncle be at this moment? I
imagined him running around under the splendid trees on the Altona
road, waving his arms, firing at the walls with his walking-stick, flattening
the grass at a stroke, beheading the thistles, disturbing the lonely storks
from their sleep.
Would he come back triumphant or discouraged? Who would win, him
or the secret? I was wondering about such matters, and without thinking
picked up the sheet of paper on which I had written the incomprehensible
sequence of letters. I repeated to myself:
'What can it possibly mean?'
I tried to group the letters into words. I couldn't! Whether you put
them into twos, threes, fives, or sixes, nothing came out that made
sense. The fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth letters did produce the
English word ice. The eighty-fourth, eighty-fifth, and eighty-sixth ones
gave sir. In the middle of the document, in the third line,24 I spotted the
Latin words rota, mutabile, ira, nec, and atra.
'It's amazing! These last few words seem to confirm my uncle's view
about the language of the document! In the fourth line I can even see
luco, which means "sacred wood". It's true that the third line also includes
tabiled, which sounds completely Hebrew to me, and the last one, mer,
arc, and mPre, pure and unadulterated French.'
It was enough to drive you out of your mind. Four different languages
in the same preposterous sentence! What possible connection could there
be between ice, sir, anger, cruel, sacred wood, changeable, mother, bow,
and sea? Only the first and last were easily linked: in a document written
in Iceland, it was hardly surprising that there should be a 'sea of ice'. But
putting the rest of the puzzle back together was another matter entirely.
 23 that word-puzzle. . . solved: part of Oedipus's quest was to solve a riddle
set him by the Sphinx.
24 in the third line: in fact, in the second and third lines. 
I was struggling with an insoluble problem; my brain started overheating,
my eyes blinking at the sheet. The 132 letters seemed to dance
around me, like those silver drops which float above your head when
there is a sudden rush of blood to it.
I was having a sort of hallucination; I was suffocating; I needed some
fresh air. Absent-mindedly I fanned myself using the piece of paper, with
the back and the front passing alternately before my eyes.
Imagine my surprise when I thought I caught sight of perfectly intelligible
words during a quick turn of the sheet, just as the other side came
into view: Latin words like craterem and terrestre!
Suddenly my mind sparked; through the fleeting glimpses I had
caught sight of the truth; I had discovered how the code worked. To understand
the document, you didn't even need to read it through the paper.
Far from it. In its original form, exactly as it had been spelled out to
me, it could easily be decoded. The professor's ingenious attempts were
all finally paying off. He had been right about the way the letters were arranged
and right about the language the document was written in. A
mere 'nothing'25 had stopped him reading the Latin sentence from beginning
to end, and this self-same 'nothing' had just fallen into my lap by
pure chance. You can imagine how excited I felt. My eyes went out of focus
and I couldn't see anything. I had spread the piece of paper out on
the table. All I had to do now to possess the secret was to glance at it.
At last I managed to calm down. I forced myself to walk round the
room twice to settle my nerves; then came back and immersed myself
again in the huge armchair.
I drew a large supply of air into my lungs, and shouted: 'Read on!'
I bent over the table. I placed my finger on each successive letter
and, without stopping, without slowing down at all, read the whole message
out loud.
What amazement, what terror entered my soul! At first it was like being
hit by a blow you didn't expect. What, had the things I had just discovered
really happened? A man had been daring enough to penetrate. . .
'No!' I cried indignantly. 'No! I'm not going to tell my uncle. It would
be terrible if he got to know about such a journey. He'd just want to have
a go himself. Nothing would stop a geologist of such determination. He
would leave anyway, against all obstacles, whatever the cost. And he'd
take me with him, and we wouldn't come back. Never. Not nohow!'
I was in an awful state, one difficult to describe.
'No, no, no! It won't happen like that!' I said firmly. 'And since I am
able to prevent any such idea crossing the mind of the dictator who governs
my life, I will do so. By turning this document in every direction, he
might accidentally discover the code. I'm going to destroy it.'
The fire hadn't quite gone out. I picked up the sheet of paper, together
with Saknussemm's parchment. My trembling hand was just about
 25 A mere 'nothing': (French: rien) 'nothing' in medieval Latin is rem, which
is not only the ending of craterem, but also the previously quoted mer ('sea')
backwards. 
to throw the whole lot on to the coals and thus destroy the dangerous secret when
the study door opened. My uncle came in.
5
I had barely time to put the wretched document back on the desk.
Professor Lidenbrock seemed preoccupied. His obsessive idea wasn't
giving him a moment's rest. He had obviously pondered the question during
his walk, considered it, called on every resource of his imagination.
And he had plainly come back to try out some new combination.
Sure enough, he sat down in his armchair and, pen in hand, began to
write out formulae that looked like algebraic calculations.
I watched his frantic hand: not a single movement was lost on me.
Was some surprising new result suddenly going to spring forth? I was
afraid it would, irrationally, since the correct combination, the only one,
had already been discovered  and so any other line of exploration was
doomed to failure.
For three long hours, my uncle worked without a word, without looking
up rubbing out, starting again, crossing out, setting to for the umpteenth
time.
I knew full well that if he managed to put the letters into every single
order possible, then the right sentence would come out. But I also knew
that a mere twenty letters can form two quintillion, four hundred and
thirty-two quadrillion, nine hundred and two trillion, eight billion, one
hundred and seventy-six million, six hundred and forty thousand combinations.
In fact there were
132 letters in the sentence; and these 132 letters produced a total
number of sentences that had at least 133 digits,26 one that is virtually
impossible to enumerate and goes completely beyond the bounds of
imagination.
I therefore felt reassured about the heroic way of solving the problem.
But time passed; night came; the street noises died down; my uncle,
still bent over his work, didn't see anything, didn't notice Martha halfopening
the door. He heard nothing, not even the voice of the faithful
servant:
'Will Sir be having supper tonight?'
Martha had to go away again without a response. As for myself, after
fighting it for some time, an irresistible drowsiness came over me, and I
fell asleep on the end of the sofa, while my Uncle Lidenbrock continued
his adding up, his taking away, and his crossing out.
When I woke again the following morning, the inexorable worker was
still at it. His eyes were red, his face pale, his hair tousled by a feverish
hand, and his cheekbones glowed purple. All were signs of a terrible
struggle with the impossible, showing what tiredness of mind and what
exertions of the brain must have filled the long hours.
 26 20 letters. . . 133 digits: the figure for 20 letters (20 factorial) is correct,
provided that all 20 letters are diferent; but 132 factorial has in fact 125 digits. 
I was genuinely sorry for him. In spite of the reproaches I probably
had the right to make, I felt considerable pity. The poor man was so possessed
by his idea that he had quite forgotten to be angry. His whole energy
was concentrated on a single point, and since it could not escape
through its normal outlet, it was to be feared that it might simply explode
at any moment.
With a single act I could undo the iron hoop wrapped tight round his
brain with just one word. I did nothing.
But I had a kind heart. Why did I not speak out in such circumstances?
For my uncle's own sake.
'No, no,' I repeated, 'no. I'm not going to say anything. He would only
want to go there, I know him, nothing would stop him. He has a volcanic
imagination and he would risk his life to do what no geologist has ever
done before. I will not say anything; I will keep this secret given to me by
chance. To let it out would be tantamount to killing Professor Lidenbrock.
Let him guess if he can. I don't want to feel responsible one day for having
sent him to his death!'
Once my mind was made up, I crossed my arms and waited. But I
hadn't reckoned with something that happened a few hours later.
When Martha tried to go out to the market, she found the door locked.
The big key was not in the keyhole. Who had taken it out? Obviously my
uncle, when he had come back from his hasty excursion the day before.
Was it on purpose? Or was it through absent-mindedness? Did he
want us to feel real hunger pains? That seemed to be going a bit far. Why
should Martha and I suffer because of a situation that had nothing whatsoever
to do with us? But apparently this was the case, and I recalled a
frightening precedent. A few years before, when my uncle had been working
on his grand mineral classification, he had remained forty-eight hours
without eating, and his whole household had had to follow his scientific
diet. As a result, I acquired stomach cramps that were not much fun for a
boy of a fairly ravenous nature.
It now seemed that breakfast was going to go the same way as supper
the day before. Nevertheless I resolved to be heroic and not to give in
to the demands of hunger. Martha took it very seriously: she was inconsolable,
the poor woman. As for myself, being unable to leave the house
upset me more, with good reason, as I am sure you will understand.
My uncle was still working; his mind was lost in a world of combinations;
he lived far from the Earth and truly beyond worldly needs.
At about twelve o'clock, though, hunger began to cause me serious
problems. Martha, very innocently, had devoured the supplies in the larder
the day before, and so there was nothing left in the whole house. I
held on, however. I considered it a matter of honour.
Two o'clock chimed. The situation was becoming ridiculous, intolerable
even. My eyes began to look very big. I started to tell myself that I was
exaggerating the importance of the document; that in any case my uncle
wouldn't believe what it said; that he would regard it as a mere practical
joke; that if the worst came to the worst he could be restrained against 
his will if he wanted to attempt the expedition; and that he might easily
find the code himself, in which case all my efforts at abstinence would
have been in vain.
These all seemed excellent reasons to me, although I would have indignantly
rejected them the day before. I even con-sidered it a terrible
mistake to have waited so long; and I made up my mind to reveal all.
I was therefore looking for a way into the subject, one that wasn't too
sudden, when, without warning, the professor stood up, put his hat on,
and got ready to go out.
What, leave the house, and shut us in again? Never!
'Uncle?'
He didn't appear to have heard.
'Uncle Lidenbrock!' I repeated, raising my voice.
'Huh?' he said, like someone abruptly woken up.
'What about the key?'
'What key? The door?'
'No,' I cried. 'The key to the document!'
The professor scrutinised me over his glasses; he must have noticed
something unusual in my face, for he firmly grabbed me by the arm while
still carefully inspecting me, although unable to utter a word. All the
same, never was a question asked more clearly.
I moved my head up and down.
He shook his, with a sort of pity, as if dealing with a lunatic.
I made a more positive sign.
His eyes shone brighter; his hand became threatening.
Given the situation, this silent conversation would have absorbed the
most indifferent spectator. I had in fact really reached the point of not
daring to say anything, such was my fear of my uncle suffocating me
when he first began to joyfully embrace me. But he became so insistent
that I just had to speak.
'Yes, the code. . . Purely by chance. . . '
'What are you saying?' he cried with an intensity that cannot be described.

'Look,' I said, giving him the paper with my writing on. 'Read.'
'But it doesn't make sense!' he replied, screwing it up.
'No sense, when you begin at the beginning, but. . . '
I hadn't finished before the professor produced a shout, more than a
shout, an actual roar! A revelation had just occurred in his brain. His face
was transmogrified.
'Oh, clever old Saknussemm!' he bellowed. 'So you wrote your message
backwards?'
And throwing himself on the sheet of paper, his eyes un-focused, his
voice trembling, he spelled the whole document out, working his way
from the last letter back to the first.27
 27 from. . . first: Verne probably derived this method of constructing a cryptogram
from Poe's 'The Gold Bug', which he quotes extensively in his 'Edgar Poe
et ses Euvres' (1864). 
This was what he read:
In Snefells Yoculis craterem kem delibat umbra Scartaris Julii intra
calendas descende, audas viator, et terrestre centrum attinges. Kod feci.
Arne Saknussemm.
Which, when translated from the dog-Latin, reads as follows:
Go down into the crater of Snaefells Yocul which the shadow of Scartaris
caresses before the calends28 of July, O audacious traveller, and you
will reach the centre of the Earth. I did it. Arne Saknussemm.
As he read, my uncle jumped as if drawing current from a Leyden
jar.29 His courage, his joy, his certainty, knew no bounds. He walked up
and down; he held his head in both hands; he moved the chairs around;
he piled the books up; unbelievably, he juggled with his precious geodes;
he threw a punch here, a blow there. At last his nerves calmed down and,
like a man exhausted after discharging too much fluid, he flopped back in
his armchair.
'So what time is it?' he asked after a few moments' silence.
'Three o'clock.'
'H'm, dinner has gone down quickly. I'm dying of hunger. To table.
And then after that. . . '
'After?'
'You can pack my trunk.'
'?'
'And yours too!' concluded the merciless professor, striding into the
dining-room.
6
These last words sent a shiver through my whole body. I kept my selfcontrol
though. I even resolved to put on a brave face. Only scientific arguments
could stop Professor Lidenbrock now. And there was no lack of
arguments, and good ones, against such a journey being possible. Go to
the centre of the Earth? What madness! But I kept my reasoning for a
more suitable moment, and instead gave my full attention to the meal.
There would be little point in reproducing here my uncle's curses when
he saw the cleared-away table. Things were duly explained to him, and
Martha freed again. Running to the market, she managed so well that an
hour later my hunger was satisfied, and I could begin to be aware of the
situation once more.
During the meal, my uncle had been almost cheerful: there escaped
from him some of those scholars' jokes that never become really dangerous.
After the last course, he beckoned me into his study.
I obeyed. He sat at one side of his desk, with me at another.
'Axel,' he said in a voice that was almost kindly, 'you are a highly
gifted boy; you were of great assistance to me when I was worn out by
my efforts and about to give up looking for the combination. Where would
 28 calends: the first day of the month in the Roman calendar.
29 Leyden jar: a kind of electrical condenser with a glass jar as a dielectric
between sheets of tin foil, invented in 1745 at Leyden University. 
I have ended up? No one can guess. I will never forget that, my boy, and
you will have your fair share of the fame we are going to achieve.'
'Now's my chance!' I thought. 'He's in a good mood: the moment to
discuss the aforementioned fame.'
'. . . Above all,' my uncle continued, 'total secrecy must be maintained,
do you hear? In the scientific world, there is no shortage of people
jealous of me, and many of them would dearly love to tackle this journey.
But they will have no inkling of it until we get back.'
'Do you really believe there'd be so many takers?'
'Most definitely! Who would think twice about gaining such celebrity?
If people knew of the document, a whole army of geologists would rush to
follow in Arne Saknussemm's footsteps!'
'That's where I'm not totally convinced, Uncle, for nothing proves that
the manuscript is genuine.'
'What! And the book we discovered it in?'
'All right, I accept that this Saknussemm wrote the message, but does
it necessarily follow that he actually carried out the journey? Couldn't the
old parchment just be a practical joke?'
I half-regretted this last idea, admittedly a bit daring. The professor's
thick eyebrows frowned, and I was afraid that the rest of the conversation
might not go as I wished. But fortunately it didn't turn out like that. A sort
of smile played over my stern questioner's lips, as he replied:
'That is what we are going to find out.'
'H'm!' I said, a little annoyed. 'Allow me first to exhaust all possible
objections concerning the document.'
'Speak, my boy, give yourself full rein. I grant you every freedom to
express your opinion. You are no longer my nephew, but my colleague.
Pray proceed.'
'Well, I will first ask you what Yocul, Snaefells, and Scartaris mean,
since I have never even heard of them.'
'That's easy. As it happens, I received a map not very long ago from
my friend August Peterman of Leipzig.30 It couldn't have arrived at a better
time. Take down the third atlas on the second section in the big bookcase,
series Z, shelf 4.'
I got up and, thanks to the precise instructions, quickly found the required
atlas. My uncle opened it:
'This is Anderson's, one of the best maps of Iceland, and it may easily
provide us with solutions to all your problems.'
I leant over the map.
'See this island of volcanoes', said the professor, 'and notice that they
all bear the name "jokull". This means "glacier" in Icelandic and, at that
northerly latitude, most of the eruptions reach the light of day through
the layers of ice. Hence this name "jokull" applied to all the fire-producing
peaks of the island.'
'Fine. But what about Snaefells?'
 30 August Petermann of Leipzig: (Verne: 'Augustus Peterman') 1822-78, cartographer
and geographer, in fact from Hamburg and Gotha. 
I hoped there would be no answer to this question. I was wrong.
'Follow me along the western coast of Iceland. Do you see Reykjavik,
the capital? Yes. Good. Work your way up along the countless fjords of
these shorelines eaten by the sea, and stop a little before the line of 65
N. What do you see?'
'A peninsula rather like a bare bone, with an enormous kneecap at the
end.'
'Not an inappropriate comparison, my dear boy. Now, do you see anything
on the kneecap?'
'Yes, a mountain that looks as if it's sprouted in the middle of the sea.'
'Good. That's Snaefells.'
'Snaefells?'
'The one and only. A five-thousand-foot-high mountain, one of the
most remarkable on the island and definitely the most famous in the
whole world, if its crater leads to the centre of the globe.'
'But it's quite impossible!' I said, shrugging my shoulders in protest at
such a conjecture.
'Impossible?' said Professor Lidenbrock severely. 'And why should that
be?'
'Because this crater is obviously blocked up with lava and scorching
rocks, and so. . . '
'And supposing it is an extinct crater?'
'Extinct?'
'Yes. There are now only about three hundred volcanoes in activity on
the surface of the Earth but the number of extinct ones is much greater.
Snaefells falls into this latter category, and in historical times has only
had a single eruption, the 1219 one. Since then its rumblings have gradually
died down, and it is no longer considered an active volcano.'
I had no reply at all for these categorical statements, so fell back on
the other mysteries hidden in the document.
'But what does the word "Scartaris" mean, and what have the calends
of July got to do with anything?'
My uncle concentrated for a few seconds. My hope came back for a
moment, but only for a moment, for soon he replied to me as follows:
'What you call a mystery is crystal clear for me. It proves with what
care and ingenuity Saknussemm wished to indicate his discovery. Snaefells
is composed of several craters; it was therefore necessary to pinpoint
which is the one that leads to the centre of the globe. What did our scholarly
Icelander do? Our Icelandic scholar observed that as the calends of
July approached, that is towards the end of June, one of the mountain
peaks, called Scartaris, cast its shadow as far as the opening of the relevant
crater, and he noted this fact in his document. Could he have found
a more precise indication, and once we are on the summit of Snaefells 
can there be a moment's hesitation as to the path to follow?'
Decidedly my uncle had an answer for everything. I saw full well that
he was unassailable on the words of the ancient parchment. So I stopped
pressing him on that subject and, since the most important thing was to 
convince him, turned to the scientific objections, in my view much more
serious.
'All right, I am forced to accept that Saknussemm's message is clear
and can leave no doubt in one's mind. I even grant that the document
looks perfectly authentic. So this scholar went to the bottom of Snaefells;
he saw the shadow of Scartaris lingering on the edge of the crater just
before the calends of July; he probably even heard the people of his time
recounting legends that this crater led to the centre of the Earth. But as
to whether he went down there himself, whether he carried out the journey
and came back, whether he even undertook it: no, a hundred times
no!'
'And the reason?' asked my uncle in a singularly mocking tone.
'Because all the scientific theories demonstrate that such an undertaking
is impossible!'
'All the theories say that?' replied the professor, putting on a goodnatured
appearance. 'Oh the nasty theories. They're going to get terribly
in our way, the poor theories!'
I could see that he was making fun of me, but continued regardless:
'Yes, it is well known that the temperature increases by approximately
one degree centigrade for every seventy feet you go below the surface of
the globe. Now, assuming that this ratio remains constant, and given that
the radius of the Earth is about four thousand miles,31 the temperature at
the centre will be well over 200,000  . The substances at the Earth's core
exist therefore as white-hot gases, for even metals like gold or platinum,
even the hardest rocks, cannot resist such a temperature. My question
whether it is possible to travel in such an environment is consequently a
reasonable one!'
'So, Axel, it is the heat that bothers you?'
'Certainly. If we were to attain a depth of only twenty-five miles, we
would have reached the limit of the Earth's crust, for the temperature
would already be more than 1,400  .'
'And you are afraid of melting?'
'I leave the question for you to decide,' I replied sharply.
'Here is what I decide,' said Professor Lidenbrock, assuming an important
air. 'It is that neither you nor anyone else knows for certain what
happens in the Earth's interior, given that scarcely a twelve-thousandth
part of its radius is known. It is that science is eminently perfectible, and
that each existing theory is constantly replaced by a new one. Was it not
believed before Fourier32 that the temperature of interplanetary space
 31 4,000 miles: ('quinze cents lieues') in ch. 39, the same 'quinze cents
lieues' is given as the distance still to go. In ch. 25, the radius at the latitude of
Iceland is given more exactly as 'quinze cent quatre-vingt-trois lieues et un tiers'
(3,936 miles, if a French league is taken to be exactly 4 km. the modern figure
for the equatorial radius is 3,963 miles).
32 Fourier: Jean Baptiste Joseph (1768-1830). Known today as a mathematician
for the Fourier series, his work was carried out on heat diffusion, which led
him to invent the idea of partial differential equations. 
went down indefinitely, and is it not known now that the greatest cold in
the ether does not go beyond 40 or 50  below zero? Why should it not be
the same for the internal heat? Why should it not encounter at a certain
depth a limit that cannot be crossed, instead of reaching the point where
the most obdurate minerals liquefy?'
Since my uncle placed the question on the terrain of hypotheses, I
had no reply to make.
'Well, Axel, I can tell you that real scientists, amongst them Poisson,33
have proved that if a temperature of 200,000  actually existed inside the
globe, the white-hot gases produced by the fusion of the solids would acquire
such force that the Earth's crust could not resist and would explode
like the walls of a boiler under steam pressure.'
'Poisson's opinion, Uncle, that's all.'
'Agreed, but it is also the opinion of other distinguished geologists that
the interior of the globe is not formed of gas, nor of water, nor of the
heaviest rocks that we know. The reason is that, if it were, the Earth
would only weigh half as much as it does.'
'Oh, you can prove anything you want with figures!'
'And can you, my boy, with facts? Is it not true that the number of
volcanoes has considerably decreased since the first days of the world?34
And if there is indeed heat in the centre, can one not deduce that it is also
tending to diminish?'
'Uncle, if you're entering the realm of suppositions, there is nothing
more I can say.'
'And I have to say that my opinion is shared by highly competent figures.
Do you remember a visit that the famous British chemist Sir Humphry
Davy paid me in 1825?'35
'Hardly, as I only came into the world nineteen years later.'
'Well, Sir Humphry came to see me as he was passing through Hamburg.
Amongst other things, we had a long discussion about the hypothesis
that the innermost core of the Earth was liquid. We both agreed that a
molten state could not exist, for a reason to which science has never
found a response.'
'What reason is that?' I said, slightly stunned.
'Because the liquid mass would be subject, like the ocean, to the
moon's attraction, thus producing internal tides twice a day which would
push up at the Earth's crust and cause regular earthquakes!'
'But it is none the less obvious that the surface of the globe was once
exposed to combustion, and one can suppose that the outer crust cooled
down first while the heat retreated to the centre.'
 33 Poisson: Simeon Denis (1781-1840), applied mathematician at the Sorbonne.
Known today for the Poisson distribution in statistics.
34 the first days of the world: a hangover from biblical language.
35 Sir Humphry Davy: (1778-1829). Chemist, notably discovered laughing
gas, invented miners' safety-lamp and proved that diamond was a form of carbon;
1825: Lidenbrock is 'about 50' in 1863 (ch. 1) which makes him about 12
in 1825! 
'Not so. The Earth heated up through combustion on its surface, not
from any other cause. The surface was composed of a great quantity of
metals such as potassium and sodium, which have the property of catching
fire as soon as they are in contact with air and water. These metals
started to burn when the water vapour in the atmosphere fell to the
ground as rain. Little by little, as the water worked its way into the cracks
in the Earth's crust, it produced further fires, explosion, and eruptions.
Hence the large number of volcanoes during the first days of the world.'
'What an ingenious hypothesis!' I cried, rather in spite of myself.
'Which Sir Humphry brought to my notice by means of a highly simple
experiment on this very spot. He constructed a ball made mainly of the
metals I have just mentioned, and which perfectly represented our globe.
When a fine dew was dropped on to its surface, it blistered, oxidised, and
produced a tiny mountain. A crater opened at the summit; an eruption
took place; and it transmitted so much warmth to the whole ball that it
became too hot to hold.'
To tell the truth, I was beginning to be disturbed by the professor's
arguments. What didn't help either was that he was presenting them with
his usual verve and enthusiasm.
'You see, Axel, the state of the central core has produced various hypotheses
amongst geologists; nothing is less proven than the idea of an
internal heat. In my view it does not exist, could not possibly exist. In any
case we shall see for ourselves and, like Arne Saknussemm, discover
where we stand on this important question.'
'Yes, we shall!' I shouted, won over by his excitement. 'We'll see for
ourselves, provided, that is, anything at all can be seen down there!'
'And why not? Can we not count on electrical phenomena to light the
way, and even on the atmosphere, which the pressure may make more
and more luminous as the centre approaches?'
'Yes. Yes! It is possible after all.'
'It is certain,' retorted my uncle in triumph. 'But it must be kept quiet,
do you hear? All this must be maintained totally secret, so that no one
else has the idea of discovering the centre of the Earth before us.'
7
Our memorable session ended here. The discussion had given me a
fever. I left my uncle's study as if in a trance; there was not enough air to
calm me down in all the streets of Hamburg put together. So I made for
the banks of the Elbe, near the steamboat service connecting the town
with the Harburg railway line.
Was I really convinced by what I'd just been told? Hadn't I been won
over by Professor Lidenbrock's forceful manner? Could I take seriously his
decision to go to the core of the terrestrial mass? Had I just heard the
senseless speculations of a lunatic or the scientific analyses of a great
genius? In all this, where did the truth end and illusion begin?
I drifted amongst a thousand contradictory hypotheses, without being
able to seize hold of any of them. 
However, I did remember being convinced, although my enthusiasm
was now beginning to wane: I would in fact have preferred to set off immediately
so as not to have time to think. Yes, I would easily have been
able to pack my cases at that very moment. Yet I have to confess that an
hour later my excitement had subsided; my nerves grew less tense and,
from the deep chasms of the Earth, I slowly came back to the surface.
'It's all preposterous!' I exclaimed. 'Completely devoid of common
sense. It's not the sort of proposal to put to a sensible boy. None of all
that exists. I didn't sleep properly. I must have had a bad dream.'
I had meanwhile walked along the banks of the Elbe and reached the
other side of the town. I had worked my way along the port and arrived
at the Altona road. Inspiration had guided me, a justified intuition, for
soon I caught sight of my little Grauben walking nimbly back to Hamburg.
'Grauben!' I shouted from afar.
The girl stopped, a little flustered, I imagine, to hear her name called
on the public highway. Ten strides took me to her side.
'Axel!' she said in surprise. 'Oh, so you came to meet me you can't
deny it!'
But when she looked at me, Grauben could not avoid noticing my worried,
upset appearance.
'What's wrong?' she said, taking my hand.
'Wrong!' I cried.
In two seconds and three sentences my pretty Virland girl was up to
date on everything. She remained silent for a few seconds. Was her heart
pounding as hard as mine? I don't know, but the hand holding mine
wasn't trembling. We continued for a hundred yards without a word.
'Axel,' she said at last.
'Darling Grauben!'
'It'll be a wonderful journey.'
I jumped a mile.
'Yes, Axel. A journey worthy of a scholar's nephew. A man should try
to prove himself by some great adventure!'
'What, Grauben, you're not attempting to stop me going on such an
expedition?'
'No, dear Axel, and I would gladly go with you and your uncle, but a
poor girl would only be in the way.'
'Are you telling the truth?'
'Yes.'
O women, girls, feminine hearts, impossible to understand! When you
are not the shyest of creatures, you are the most foolhardy. Reason has
no influence over you. What, this child was encouraging me to take part
in such an expedition! She wouldn't have been afraid to do the journey
herself! She wanted me to do it, although she loved me!
I was put out and, I admit, a little ashamed.
'Grauben,' I tried again, 'we'll see if you talk this way to-morrow.'
'Tomorrow, dear Axel, I'll be the same as today.' 
We continued on our way, holding hands but not saying anything. I
was exhausted by the day's events.
'After all,' I thought, 'the calends of July are still ages off, and before
then any number of things can occur to cure my uncle of his craze for underground
travel.'
Night had fallen by the time we got home to Konigstrasse. I expected
to find the house quiet, with my uncle in bed as usual and Martha giving
the dining-room one last feather-dusting.
But I had forgotten about the professor's impatience. I found him
shouting and rushing round in the middle of a troop of porters, all unloading
goods on the garden path, with the old servant at her wits' end.
'Come on, Axel, don't hang around like a drip,' shouted my uncle from
afar as soon as he saw me. 'Your trunk is not packed, my papers are not
in order, I have lost the key for the travelling-bag, and my gaiters have
not yet arrived.'
I was overwhelmed, I couldn't find my voice. All my lips managed to
produce was:
'So we're leaving?'
'Yes, my poor boy. You should be moving instead of just standing
there.'
'Really leaving?' I repeated faintly.
'Day after tomorrow, crack of dawn.'
I couldn't bear to hear any more, and ran up to my little room.
There could no longer be any doubt. During the afternoon my uncle
had been buying the articles and utensils needed for his journey. The path
was blocked with rope-ladders, knotted cords, torches, water bottles, iron
crampons, pickaxes, ice-picks, alpenstocks the total needing at least ten
men to carry it.
I spent an awful night. In the morning I was called early. I decided not
to open the door. But how could I resist a gentle voice saying:
'Dear Axel.'
I came out. I thought that my dishevelled appearance, my pale face,
my eyes reddened by lack of sleep, would affect Grauben and make her
change her mind.
'So, darling Axel, I see you're in better form, and have calmed down
during the night.'
'Calmed down!'
I rushed to the mirror. To my surprise I looked less bad than I'd
thought. It was unbelievable.
'Axel,' said Grauben, 'I've had a long talk with my guardian. He is a
staunch scholar, a man of great courage, and you should always remember
that you have his blood in your veins. He told me of his aims, his
hopes: why he wants to achieve his goal, and how he's planning to go
about it. He will get there, I'm sure. Dear Axel, it's such a fine thing to
devote oneself to science! How famous Herr Lidenbrock will become, and
his companion too. When you come back, Axel, you will be a man, his
equal, free to speak, free to act, free at last to. . . ' 
The girl, turning red, could not finish. Her words gave me new energy.
But I still couldn't believe that we were about to leave. I dragged Grauben
into the professor's study.
'So, Uncle,' I said. 'Are you really determined to go?'
'What, aren't you convinced?'
'Of course I am,' I said to pacify him. 'But I'm just wondering what all
the hurry is.'
'Time is the hurry! Time fleeing with a speed nothing can alter!'
'But it is only 26 May, and the end of June is. . . '
'So you think, ignoramus, that it is as easy as that to get to Iceland?
If you had not left like a madman, I would have taken you with me to the
branch office of Liffender & Co. of Copenhagen. There you would have
seen that there is only one service from Copenhagen to Reykjavik, on the
22nd of each month.'
'Well then?'
'Well then, if we waited until 22 June, we would arrive too late to see
the shadow of Scartaris playing along the crater of Snaefells! We have to
get to Copenhagen as quickly as possible and try to find some means of
transport there. Go and pack your trunk.'
There was nothing more I could say. I went back up to my room.
Grauben came with me. She immediately took charge, carefully packing
into a small suitcase the things needed for my journey. She was no more
excited than if it had been a day-trip to Lubeck or Heligoland. Her little
hands went back and forth unhurriedly. She talked calmly, she gave me
the most sensible reasons for doing our expedition. She beguiled me and
I felt very angry with her. At times I wanted to fly into a passion, but she
took no notice and continued her calm and methodical work.
Finally the last strap had been tightened round the case. I went downstairs
again.
Throughout the day, more and more suppliers of scientific instruments,
firearms, and electrical apparatus arrived. Martha was in a terrible
tizzy.
'Is Sir mad?' she cried.
I nodded.
'And he's taking you with him?'
Another nod.
'Where?'
I pointed to the centre of the Earth.
'To the cellar?'
'No, further!'
Evening came. I was no longer aware of the passing of time.
'See you tomorrow then,' said my uncle. 'Departure: six sharp.'
At ten o'clock I fell on my bed a lifeless mass.
During the night, terror took hold of me again.
I spent it dreaming of chasms. I was the creature of delirium. I felt
myself seized by the vigorous hand of the professor, dragged along, engulfed,
bogged down. I was falling to the bottom of unfathomable pits 
with the increasing speed of bodies abandoned in space. My life was just
one endless fall.
I woke at five, broken with fatigue and fear. I went down to the dining-room.
My uncle was at table. He was wolfing food down. I looked at
him with horror. But Grauben was there, so I didn't say anything. But I
couldn't eat.
At half past five, wheels were heard rumbling in the street. A large
carriage arrived to take us to Altona station. It was soon piled up with my
uncle's packages.
'But where's your trunk?'
'Everything's ready,' I replied, my knees weakening.
'Hurry up and bring it down or we'll miss the train.'
Fighting against destiny seemed impossible for the moment. Going up
to my room I let my case slide downstairs, rushing headlong down after
it.
Meanwhile my uncle was solemnly putting the reins of the house in
Grauben's hands. My pretty Virland girl was as calm as usual. She kissed
her guardian, but she could not hold back a tear when she grazed my
cheek with her sweet lips.
'Grauben,' I said.
'Go, dear Axel, go. You are leaving a fiancee but you will come back to
a wife.'
I held Grauben briefly in my arms, then got into the carriage. She and
Martha waved us a last goodbye from the front door. Then the two
horses, urged on by the whistling of the driver, galloped off towards Altona.

8
In less than twenty minutes, we had crossed the border into Holstein
Province.36 Altona, really a suburb of Hamburg, is the terminus of the line
from Kiel, along which we were due to travel to the coast of the BFlts.
At half past six the carriage pulled up in front of the station. My uncle's
numerous packages and bulky cases were unloaded, carried in,
weighed, labelled, and loaded into the luggage van. At seven o'clock we
were sitting opposite each other in our compartment. The steam-whistle
blew and the locomotive moved off. We had left.
Was I resigned to my fate? No, not yet. But the fresh morning air and
the view constantly changing with the motion of the train soon took my
mind off its main worry.
The professor's thoughts were obviously flying ahead of the train,
moving too slowly for his impatience. We were alone in the carriage, but
did not speak. My uncle checked his pockets and travelling-bag with the
 36 Holstein Province: Denmark and Prussia fought a war in 1864, resulting in
Schleswig-Holstein's incorporation into Prussia. It was quite remarkable to publish
a book about two Germans visiting Denmark and one of its colonies when a
war was going on between the two countries! 
most painstaking care. I could see that not one of the items needed for
carrying out his projects was missing.
Amongst them was a carefully folded sheet of headed notepaper from
the Danish consulate, signed by Mr Christiensen, consul-general in Hamburg
and a friend of the professor's. It was intended to afford us every facility
in Copenhagen with a view to being granted recommendations to the
governor-general of Iceland.
I also glimpsed the famous document, carefully hidden away in the
most secret compartment of my uncle's wallet. Still cursing it from the
bottom of my heart, I began to examine the countryside. It was an endless
succession of plains, lacking in interest: monotonous and silty, but
relatively fertile and highly suitable for laying down a railway, given its
potential for those straight lines so popular with the rail companies.
But the tedium did not have time to annoy me for, only three hours
after leaving, the train stopped at Kiel, a stone's throw from the sea.
Since our luggage was registered for Copenhagen, we had no need to
bother with it. Nevertheless the professor watched with an anxious expression
as it was loaded on to the steamship. Then it disappeared into
the bottom of a hold.
In his hurry, my uncle had so carefully calculated the connections between
the train and the steamer that we had nearly a whole day to kill,
for the Ellenora was not due to leave until after nightfall. Hence a fever
lasting nine hours, during which the cantankerous traveller rained curses
on the shipping and railway companies and governments which allowed
such abuses to happen. I was forced to back him up while he berated the
captain of the Ellenora on this very subject. He wanted to make him stoke
the boilers without wasting a moment. The captain advised him to go for
a walk.
In Kiel, as elsewhere, a day has to pass, eventually. By dint of walking
along the luxuriant banks of the bay leading to the town, by trampling
through the bushy woods which make the town look like a nest amidst a
network of branches, by admiring the bungalows each with its own little
cold-bath-house, and by rushing and cursing, we somehow managed to
reach ten in the evening.
The whorls of smoke rose from the Ellenora into the sky; the deck
trembled with the shivers issuing from the boiler; we had already embarked,
the proud occupants of two superimposed berths in the only passenger
cabin on board.
At quarter past ten the moorings were cast off, and the steamer
moved rapidly over the dark waters of the Store BFlt.
It was a black night; there came a fine breeze and a strong sea; a few
lights from shore perforated the darkness. Later, a flashing lighthouse
shone briefly over the waves from some mysterious point and that is all
I can remember of our first crossing.
At 7 a.m. we disembarked at Korsor, a little town on the west coast of
Zealand. There we quickly climbed into another train, which carried us
over a countryside just as flat as the Holstein one. 
It still took three more hours to reach the capital of Denmark. My uncle
hadn't shut his eyes all night. In his impatience, I think he was even
pushing the carriage along with his feet.
Finally he caught sight of an arm of the sea.
'The Sound!' he shouted.
On our left was a vast construction like a hospital.
'A lunatic asylum,' said one of our travelling companions.
'Well,' I thought, 'there's one establishment where we ought to end
our days! And however big it is, that hospital would still be too small for
all the professor's folly!'
At 10 a.m., we finally alighted in Copenhagen. The luggage was
loaded on to a cab and driven with us to the Phoenix Hotel in Bredgade,
taking half an hour, for the station is out of town. Then, after a quick
wash, my uncle dragged me out of my room. The hotel porter spoke German
and English; but the professor, playing the polyglot, questioned him
in good Danish and it was in good Danish that we were told where the
Museum of Northern Antiquities was.
This curious establishment contained stacks of marvels allowing one to
reconstitute the country's history, with its old stone weapons, its goblets,
and its jewels. Professor Thomson, the director, was a scholar and a
friend of the consul in Hamburg.
My uncle had a warm letter of recommendation to give him. Normally
one scholar does not receive another very well at all. But here things
were different. Professor Thomson, a man who liked to help, gave Professor
Lidenbrock and even his nephew a kind welcome. To say that our secret
was kept from the excellent director goes without saying. We wished
simply to visit Iceland as disinterested amateurs.
Professor Thomson put himself entirely at our disposal, and together
we combed the quays looking for a ship about to sail.
I had hoped that no means of transport would be available; but this
was not to be. A little Danish schooner, the Valkyrie,
37 was due to sail for
Reykjavik on 2 June. The captain, a Mr Bjarne, was on board. His passenger-to-be,
overjoyed, shook his hand hard enough to break it. This simple
man was surprised by such a grip. He found it quite normal to go to Iceland that
was his job. But my uncle found it sublime. The worthy captain
took advantage of his enthusiasm to make us pay double for the voyage.
But we weren't bothered by such trifles.
'Be on board by 7 a.m. on Tuesday,' said Mr Bjarne, thrusting a wad
of dollars into his pocket.
We thanked Mr Thomson for all his help and returned to the Phoenix
Hotel.
'Everything's going well, very well indeed!' my uncle kept saying.
'What a stroke of luck to have found that vessel ready to leave! Now let's
eat and then we can visit the town.'
 37 Valkyrie: in Norse mythology, one of the maidens who served Odin and
rode over the battlefields to select dead heroes and take them back to Valhalla;
also an allusion to Wagner, whom Verne cites in several works. 
We headed for Kongens Nytorv, an irregularly shaped square with a
plinth containing two innocent cannon which have taken aim but in fact
frighten nobody. Just beside it, at No. 5, there was a restaurant run by a
French chef called Vincent. We ate our fill there for the modest price of
four marks each.38
Then I took a childish pleasure in exploring the town, with my uncle
allowing himself to be dragged along. In any case he saw nothing: not the
insignificant Royal Palace, nor the pretty seventeenth-century bridge
across the canal in front of the museum, nor the huge memorial to Thorvaldsen,39
covered in hideous murals and with the works of this sculptor
inside, nor the candy-box Rosenborg Castle, nor the admirable Renaissance
building of the Stock Exchange, nor the church spire made of the
intertwined tails of four bronze dragons nor even the great windmills on
the ramparts, whose immense wings swelled up like a ship's sails in a
strong sea-wind.
What delightful walks we could have gone on, my lovely Virland girl
and I, around the port where the double-deckers and frigates slept peacefully
under their red roofs, along the lush shores of the strait, or through
the bushy shade concealing the fortress, whose cannon push their black
mouths between the branches of the elders and willows. . .
But unfortunately my poor Grauben was far away. Did I have any
hope of ever seeing her again?
And yet, if my uncle noticed nothing of these enchanted sites, he was
bowled over when he saw a certain church spire on the Island of Amager,
in the south-eastern part of Copenhagen.
I was instructed to head in that direction. We climbed on to a small
steam-powered boat serving the canals and soon it pulled in at the quay
known as 'The Dockyard'.
Having made our way through narrow streets where convicts dressed
in grey-and-yellow-striped trousers were working under stick-wielding
warders, we arrived at the Vor Frelsers Kirke. The church itself was not
special in any way. But its high tower had caught the professor's eye:
starting from the platform, an outside staircase worked its way round the
spire, with its spirals in the open air.
'Up we go,' said my uncle.
'But what if we get giddy?'
'All the more reason: we have to get used to it.'
'All the same. . . '
'Come on, I tell you, we're wasting time.'
There was no choice but to obey. A caretaker who lived on the other
side of the street gave us the key, and our ascent began.
My uncle went first, treading firmly. I followed with great trepidation,
as my head turned deplorably easily. I had neither the eagle's sense of
balance nor its steady nerves.
 38 About 2 francs 75 centimes (Author's note). [JV]
39 Thorvaldsen: Bertel (1770-1844), of Icelandic descent. 
As long as we were imprisoned in the staircase inside the tower everything
went well. But after 150 spiral steps the air suddenly hit me in the
face: we had arrived on the platform. This was where the open-air staircase
began, protected by a thin rail, with the steps getting ever narrower,
apparently climbing up to infinity.
'I can't!'
'You are not a coward, are you? Start climbing!' replied the pitiless
professor.
The only option was to follow, hanging firmly on. The open air made
my head turn. I could feel the tower swaying in the guests of wind. My
legs began to give way. Soon I was climbing on my knees, then on my
stomach. I closed my eyes, feeling space-sickness.
At last, with my uncle pulling me up by the collar, I arrived near the
ball.
'Look,' he said, 'and look properly. You need to take lessons in precipices!'

I opened my eyes. Through the smoky mist I caught sight of houses
without any depth, as if crushed by a great fall. Above my head passed
dishevelled clouds which by some optical illusion seemed to have become
stationary while the tower, the ball, and I were being carried away at an
incredible speed. In the distance, the green countryside stretched out on
one side, while on the other the sea sparkled under a sheaf of rays of
sunlight. The Sound unwound to the Point of Elsinore, speckled with a few
white sails exactly like seagulls' wings, and in the mist to the east rolled
the coast of Sweden, only slightly smudged. This huge expanse swirled
every time I looked at it.
Nevertheless I had to get up, stand straight up, and look. My first lesson
in dizziness lasted an hour. When at last I was allowed down and
could set foot again on the firm paving of the streets, I was aching all
over.
'We'll do the same tomorrow,' announced my teacher.
In fact I practised this dizzy-making exercise each day for five days.
Whether I liked it or not, I made noticeable progress in the art of 'contemplation
from high places'.
9
The time came when we were due to leave. The day before, the obliging
Mr Thomson had brought the warmest letters of recommendation for
Count Trampe, the governor of Iceland, Mr Petursson, the bishop's coadjutor,
and Mr Finsen, the mayor of Reykjavik. In return my uncle granted
him his heartiest handshake.
At 6 a.m. on the 2nd our precious luggage was already stowed on
board the Valkyrie. The captain led us down to cabins that were rather
narrow and situated under a sort of deck-house.
'Is the wind with us?' enquired my uncle.
'Perfectly,' replied Captain Bjarne. 'From the south-east. We can leave
the Sound with the wind on the quarter and all sails set.' 
A few moments later, the schooner, with lower foresail, brigantine,
topsail, and mizen-topgallant sail unfurled, cast off and sailed full speed
into the strait. An hour later the capital of Denmark sank below the distant
waves as the Valkyrie cut past the coast of Elsinore. In the state of
nerves I was in, I half-expected to see Hamlet's shadow stalking along
the legendary terrace.40
'Sublime dreamer,' I said. 'You'd probably have given us your blessing!
You might even have wanted to come with us to the centre of the
globe to seek a solution to your eternal doubt!'
But nothing appeared on the aged ramparts. In any case, the castle is
much younger than the heroic prince of Denmark. It serves now as a
luxurious lodge for the watchman of this strait of the Sound, through
which fifteen thousand ships of all nations pass each year.
Kronoberg Castle soon disappeared into the mist, as did Helsingborg
Tower on the Swedish coast. The schooner leaned over slightly in the
breeze from the Kattegat.
The Valkyrie was a fine sailing ship, but with sails you never know exactly
what to expect. She was transporting coal, household utensils, pottery,
woollen clothing, and a cargo of wheat to Reykjavik. Five crew
members, all Danish, were enough to man her.
'How long will the voyage take?' asked my uncle.
'About ten days, if we don't have too many nor'westers windward of
the Faroes.'
'But you don't normally encounter significant delays?'
'No, Professor Lidenbrock. Don't worry, we'll get there.'
Towards evening the schooner rounded Cape Skagen, the northernmost
point of Denmark, then during the night crossed the Skagerrak, cut
across the tip of Norway opposite Cape Lindesnes and ventured into the
North Sea.
Two days later, we sighted the coast of Scotland in the region of Peterhead,
and the Valkyrie headed towards the Faroe Islands, passing between
the Orkneys and the Shetlands.
Soon our schooner was lashed by the waves of the Atlantic; she had
to tack against the north wind, and reached the Faroes only with some
difficulty. On the 8th, the captain caught sight of Mykines, the easternmost
of the Faroes,41 and from that moment on headed straight for Portland
Point, on the southern coast of Iceland.
 40 Hamlet's shadow stalking along the legendary terrace: even Hamlet seems
to be a source for the decidedly all-englobing Verne: including also the theme of
madness, the cemetery, the skull, Elsinore, and the quotation 'That is the question'
(ch. 33). Hamlet was drawn from ancient Scandinavian legend, and ultimately
from Iceland, where the story feature in many different sagas and stories.

41 Mykines, the westernmost of the Faroes: Verne: 'Myganness, la plus orientale
[des Feroe]'. 
The crossing did not involve any special incident. I resisted seasickness
quite well; whereas my uncle, to his great annoyance and even
greater shame, was ill all the time.
As a result, he was unable to raise the subject of Snaefells with Captain
Bjarne, or the availability of means of communication and transport.
He had to put off these questions until he arrived, and spent all his time
lying in the cabin, whose walls creaked whenever the ship rolled. It must
be admitted that he had to a certain degree deserved his fate.
On the 11th, we sighted Cape Portland. The weather, clear at this
point, allowed us to see Myrdals-jokull standing up behind the cape,
which consists of a large steep-sided hill solitarily washed up on the
beach.
The Valkyrie kept a reasonable distance from the coast, working its
way round towards the west while encircled by numerous schools of
whales and sharks. Soon there appeared a huge outcrop with daylight
showing through a hole where the foaming sea furiously surged. The
Westmann Islands looked as if they had emerged directly from the ocean,
like rocks planted in the liquid plains. From this point on the schooner
kept well out so as to leave a wide berth while rounding Cape Rey-kjanes,
which forms the western corner of Iceland.
The sea was very rough, stopping my uncle from coming on deck to
admire the shattered coasts lashed by the south-westerly wind.
Forty-eight hours later, after leaving behind a storm which had forced
the schooner to run with all sails furled, we sighted to the east the beacon
of Point Skagen,42 whose dangerous rocks extend a long way out under
the waves. An Icelandic pilot came on board, and three hours later the
Valkyrie dropped anchor in Faxa Bay, beside Reykjavik itself.
The professor finally came out of his cabin, a little pale, a little shaky,
but still enthusiastic and with a gleam of satisfaction in his eye.
The population of the town, enthralled by the arrival of a ship in which
each expected something, congregated on the quayside.
My uncle was in a hurry to flee his floating prison-cum-hospital. But
before leaving the deck of the schooner, he dragged me for'ard; there,
near the northern part of the bay, stood a high mountain with two points
on top, a double cone covered with perpetual snows.
'Snaefells,' he roared. 'Snaefells!'
He made a sign indicating total secrecy, and then climbed down into
the waiting boat. Soon we were standing on the soil of Iceland itself.
The first man to appear had a pleasant countenance and a general's
uniform. He was, however, a mere civilian, the governor of the island,
Baron Trampe himself. The professor realised who he was dealing with.
He presented the governor with the letters from Copenhagen and
launched into a short conversation in Danish, which I took no part in at
all, for a very good reason. But the result of this first interview was that
Baron Trampe put himself entirely at Professor Lidenbrock's disposal.
 42 Point Skagen: no trace of this point seems to exist: Verne may have taken
the name from Cape Skagen in Denmark, mentioned two pages previously. 
My uncle also received a warm welcome from the mayor, Mr Finsen,
whose uniform was no less military than the governor's, but whose temperament
and function were just as peaceful.
As for the coadjutor, Mr Petursson, he was at present carrying out an
episcopal visit to the northern diocese, so we had to postpone being introduced
to him. But a charming citizen, whose help became extremely
precious, was Mr Fridriksson, who taught science at Reykjavik School.
This humble scholar spoke only Icelandic and Latin: he came and offered
his services in the language of Horace, and I felt that we were bound to
understand each other. He was in fact the only person I could converse
with during my entire stay in Iceland.
Of the three rooms making up his household, this excellent man put
two at our disposal, and soon we were ensconced there with our luggage,
whose quantity slightly surprised the inhabitants of Reykjavik.
'Well, Axel,' said my uncle, 'things are working out. We are over the
worst.'
'What do you mean, the worst?'
'I mean it's downhill all the way!'
'In that sense, you're right; but, having gone down, won't we eventually
have to come back up?'
'Oh, that will not present a problem! Look, there is no time to be lost.
I am going to visit the library. It might contain some manuscript of Saknussemm's,
and if so I would very much like to have a look at it.'
'Well then, during that time I'll visit the town. Aren't you going to
have a look yourself?'
'To tell the truth, I am not very much drawn by all that. What is interesting
in this country of Iceland is below the ground, not above.'
I went out, and walked around at random.
To get lost in the two streets of Reykjavik would have been difficult. I
did not therefore have to ask my way, which can cause problems in sign
language.
The town stretches out over rather low and marshy ground between
two hills. A huge lava bed protects it on one side as it descends in gentle
stages towards the sea. On the other stretches the vast Faxa Bay, encircled
to the north by the huge glacier of Snaefells, and where the Valkyrie
lay at anchor, alone for the moment. Normally, the British and French
fish-patrols remain at anchor further out; but at this period they were
working on the eastern coastline of the island.
The longer of Reykjavik's streets runs parallel to the shore. This is
where the shopkeepers and tradesmen work, in log cabins made of horizontal
red beams. The shorter street, lying further to the west, heads towards
a little lake, passing between the houses of the bishop and other
notables not in trade.
I had soon finished my tour of these bleak, depressing avenues. From
time to time I caught sight of a scrap of faded lawn, like an old woollen
carpet threadbare through use, or else some semblance of an orchard. Its
rare produce cabbages and lettuces would not have seemed out of 
place on a table in Lilliput. A few sickly wallflowers endeavoured to look as
though taking the sun.
Not far from the middle of the residential street, I found the public
cemetery, enclosed by an earthen wall and with plenty of room left inside.
Then, only a few yards away, the governor's house, a farmhouse in comparison
with Hamburg Town Hall, but a palace beside the huts of the Icelandic
population.
Between the little lake and the town lay the church, in the Protestant
style, built out of calcined rocks generously provided by the volcanoes
themselves. During the strong westerly winds, the red tiles of its roof
clearly had a habit of flying into the air, to the considerable danger of the
congregation.43
On a nearby hillock, I discovered the National School where, as our
host later told me, Hebrew, English, French, and Danish were taught, four
languages of which, to my shame, I knew not a single word. I would have
been the last amongst the forty pupils at this tiny school, and unworthy to
sleep with them in those two-compartment cabinets where more sensitive
souls might easily have suffocated on the very first night.
In three hours, I had visited not only the town but even its surroundings.
Their appearance was especially dismal. No trees, no vegetation to
speak of. Everywhere the bare bones of the volcanic rocks. The Icelandic
habitations are made of earth and peat, and their walls slope inwards.
They look like roofs placed on the ground except that the roofs themselves
constitute relatively fertile fields. Thanks to the heat from the
houses, grass grows here in abundance. It is carefully cut at haymaking
time, for otherwise the animals from the houses would come and gently
graze on these lush cottages.
During my excursion, I encountered few locals. When I got back to the
street containing the shops, I found most of the population busy drying,
salting, and loading cod, the main export. The men seemed robust but
heavy, like blond Germans with pensive eyes. They must feel slightly outcast
from humanity: exiles on this frozen land, whom Nature should really
have made Eskimos when she condemned them to live on the Arctic Circle.
I tried in vain to surprise a smile on their faces; they sometimes
laughed in a sort of involuntary contraction of the muscles, but never actually
smiled.
Their clothing consisted of a coarse jumper of the black wool known in
Scandinavian countries as vadmel,
44 a hat with a very broad rim, a pair of
trousers with red piping, and a piece of folded leather in the way of shoes.
The women wore sad, resigned faces, of a fairly pleasant type but
rather expressionless, and were dressed in a bodice and skirt of dark
vadmel. Unmarried girls wore a small brown knitted bonnet on their hair,
which was plaited into garlands; married women, a coloured kerchief
around their head, with a crest of white linen on top.
 43 danger of the congregation: as early as 1810, travellers reported on the
faulty state of the roof tiles in this church.
44 'vadmel': literally 'homespun'. 
After a good walk I returned to Mr Fridriksson's house: my uncle was
already there, together with his host.
10
Dinner was ready and was devoured with great gusto by Professor
Lidenbrock, whose stomach had become a deep chasm during the forced
abstinence on board. The meal, more Danish than Icelandic, involved
nothing remarkable in itself; but our host, more Icelandic than Danish,
reminded me of the heroes of classical hospitality. It was clear that we
were more part of his household than the man himself.
Conversation used the native tongue, interspersed for my sake with
German by my uncle and Latin by Mr Fridriksson. It concerned scientific
subjects, as is appropriate for scholars; but Professor Lidenbrock maintained
a very strict reserve, and at each sentence his eyes told me to
keep a total silence about our future plans.
First Mr Fridriksson questioned my uncle about the results of his research
in the library.
'Your library! It consists of lonely books on almost deserted shelves.'
'What! We have eight thousand volumes, many of which are valuable
and rare, including works in old Scandinavian, plus all the new books that
Copenhagen sends us each year.'
'Where do you keep those eight thousand volumes? For my part. . . '
'Professor Lidenbrock, they're all over the country. We enjoy studying
in our frozen old land. Every farmer, every fisherman knows how to read,
and does read. We believe that books, instead of mouldering behind bars,
far from interested examination, are meant to be worn out by readers'
eyes. So these books are passed from person to person, looked at, read
and re-read; and often do not come back to the shelves for a year or
two.'
'And in the meantime,' replied my uncle with some annoyance, 'poor
foreigners. . . '
'It cannot be helped. Foreigners have their own libraries at home and,
above all, our farm-labourers need to educate themselves. As I have
mentioned, the love of study is in the Icelandic blood. Thus in 1816 we
founded a Literary Society which is still thriving; foreign scholars are honoured
to become members; it publishes books for the enlightenment of
our fellow citizens, and performs a real service for the country. If you
wished to be one of its corresponding members, Professor Lidenbrock, we
would be delighted.'
My uncle, who already belonged to a hundred or so scientific societies,
accepted with good grace, which greatly pleased Mr Fridriksson.
'Now,' said he, 'kindly indicate the books you hoped to find in our library,
and I can perhaps provide some information on them.'
I looked at my uncle. He could not decide whether or not to reply. This
matter concerned his projects directly. However, after thinking for a
while, he decided to speak out. 
'Mr Fridriksson, I wish to know whether you have, amongst the oldest
works, those of a certain Arne Saknussemm.'
'Arne Saknussemm! You are referring to that scholar of the sixteenth
century who was a great naturalist, a great alchemist, and a great traveller?'

'Precisely.'
'One of the stars of Icelandic literature and science?'
'As you so well put it.'
'One of the most illustrious of men?'
'Most certainly.'
'And whose courage was as great as his genius?'
'I see you know him perfectly.'
My uncle was in ecstasy to hear his hero spoken of in this way. He
was devouring Mr Fridriksson with his eyes.
'Well?' he asked. 'What about his works?'
'H'm. . . his works, we do not have.'
'What, even in Iceland?'
'They do not exist, in Iceland or anywhere else.'
'And why ever not?'
'Because Arne Saknussemm was persecuted for heresy, and his works
were burned in Copenhagen in 1573 by the hand of the executioner.'
'Good! Splendid!' shouted my uncle, greatly shocking the science
teacher.
'Eh?'
'Yes, everything is explained, everything fits together, all is clear, and
now I understand why Saknussemm, having been put on the Index and
forced to hide the discoveries of his genius, had to conceal the secret in
an incomprehensible word-puzzle. . . '
'What secret?' enquired Mr Fridriksson keenly.
'A secret that. . . by means of which . . . ' spluttered my uncle.
'Do you by any chance have some special document?'
'No. . . I was making a pure supposition.'
'Fine,' replied Mr Fridriksson, who had observed my uncle's confusion
and was kind enough not to insist. 'I hope', he added, 'that you will not
leave our island without delving into its mineral riches?'
'Certainly, but perhaps I arrive a little late in the day; have any scholars
been through here already?'
'Yes, Professor Lidenbrock; the work of Olafsson and Povelsen, carried
out by order of the king, Troil's studies, Gaimard and Robert's scientific
mission on board the French corvette La Recherche,
45 46 and recently the
observations of scholars on the frigate
 45 La Recherche was sent by Admiral Duperr in 1835 to find the traces of a
lost expedition, that of M. de Blosseville and La Lilloise, of which no trace has
ever been found. [JV]
46 Olafsen: Eggert Olafsson, who carried out a comprehensive field survey of
the country and people of Iceland (published in Danish in 1772); Povelsen:
pseudonym of Bjarni Palsson (1719-79), author of Des vice-lavmands. . . Island
La Reine Hortense, have all contributed very considerably to our
knowledge of Iceland. But believe me, there are still things to be done.'
'Do you really think so?' said my uncle a shade naively, trying to make
his eyes shine less.
'Yes. How many mountains, glaciers, volcanoes there are to be studied,
still hardly explored! Look, without going any further, consider that
mountain on the horizon. It is called Snaefells.'
'Is it indeed? "Snaefells".'
'Yes, a most unusual volcano, whose crater is rarely visited.'
'Extinct?'
'Oh yes. Extinct for the last five hundred years.'
'Well!' replied my uncle, frantically crossing and uncrossing his legs so
as not to jump into the air. 'I feel like beginning my geological studies
with this Snyfil. . . Feless. . . what did you call it?'
'Snaefells,' repeated the excellent Mr Fridriksson.
This part of the conversation took place in Latin. I had followed everything,
hardly able to keep a straight face when I saw my uncle trying to
keep his satisfaction in, flowing as it was from every pore. He was trying
to put on an innocent air, which made him look like a grimacing old devil.
'Yes,' he said, 'your words have made up my mind! We will try and
climb this Snaefells, perhaps even study its crater!'
'I very much regret that my duties do not allow me to leave Reykjavik;
I would willingly have accompanied you with pleasure and profit.'
'No, no!' quickly replied my uncle. 'We wish to disturb nobody, Mr
Fridriksson. I thank you with all my heart. To have a scholar like you with
us would have been very useful, but your professional duties. . . '
I like to think that our host, in the innocence of his Icelandic soul, did
not suspect my uncle's blatant tricks.
'It seems a very good idea, Professor Lidenbrock, to begin with this
volcano. You will make many interesting observations there. But tell me,
how are you planning to reach the Snaefells peninsula?'
'By sea, crossing the bay. It is the quickest route.'
'No doubt; but it cannot be taken.'

(Copenhagen, 1774-5), translated as Voyage en Islande. . . (1802); Troil's studies:
(Verne: Troil) Uno von Troil, Bishop of Linkoping then Archbishop of Uppsala,
author of Bref rorarde en resa til Island MDCCLXXII, Uppsala, 1777 (translated
as Letters on Iceland, 1780); Gaimard: Joseph Paul (1790-1858), French
naturalist, directed scientific expeditions to Northern Europe (1835-6, 1838-40),
author of Voyage en Islande et au Groenland, execute pendant les annees 1835
et 1836 sur la Corvette 'La Recherche'. . . dans le but de decouvrir les traces de
'La Lilloise'; Robert: (Louis) Eugene (1806-79), collaborated on Gaimard's book;
Duperre: Victor Guy (1775-1846), Minister for the Navy; Blosseville: Jules A. R.
P. (1802-33), French navigator, disappeared off east coast of Greenland; Reine
Hortense: Verne is here indirectly alluding to one of his major sources, Charles
Edmond (pseudonym of Edmund Chojecki collaborated with Adolphe d'Ennery
on many plays, who himself collaborated very extensively with Verne), Voyage
dans les mers du Nord B bord de la corvette la 'Reine Hortense' (which contains
a map of his journey and a geological map of Iceland) (1857). 
'Why not?'
'Because we do not have a single small boat in Reykjavik.'
'My God!'
'You will have to go by land, following the coast. It will take longer,
but be more interesting.'
'Good. I will see to obtaining a guide.'
'As a matter of fact I have one to offer you.'
'Who is reliable and intelligent?'
'Yes, he lives on the peninsula. He is an eider-hunter, highly skilled,
and with whom you will be pleased. He speaks perfect Danish.'
'And when can I see him?'
'Tomorrow if you wish.'
'Why not today?'
'Because he will only be here tomorrow.'
'Tomorrow then,' my uncle replied with a sigh.
This decisive conversation finished a few moments later with warm
thanks from the German scholar to his Icelandic counterpart. During the
dinner, my uncle had gathered some vital information, including the story
of Saknussemm, the reason for his mysterious document, the fact that his
host would not be accompanying him on the expedition, and the news
that a guide would be at his orders the very next day.
11
In the evening, I went for a brief walk along the seafront of Reykjavik,
came back early, then retired to my bed of rough planks, where I slept
the sleep of the just.
On waking up, I heard my uncle talking volubly in the next room. I
quickly got up and joined him.
He was speaking Danish with a tall man, robustly built. This great
strapping figure was clearly of unusual strength. His eyes, in a head of
very considerable size and a certain naivety, appeared intelligent to me.
They were of a dreamy blue colour. Long hair, which would have passed
for red even in Britain, fell on athletic shoulders. This native was supple in
his movements, but moved his arms little, like a man who didn't know the
language of gestures or didn't bother to use it. Everything about him revealed
a perfectly calm nature, not lazy, but composed. You felt that he
didn't require anything from anyone, that he worked as it suited him, that
his philosophy of life couldn't be astonished or disturbed by anything in
this world.
I was able to detect the nuances of the Icelander's character by the
way he listened to the passionate flow of words addressed to him. He remained
with his arms crossed, not moving despite my uncle's repeated
gesticulations; to say no, his head turned from left to right; to say yes,
downwards, but so little that his long hair hardly moved. He was not so
much economical with his movements as tight-fisted. 
Certainly, looking at this man, I would never have guessed that he
was a hunter. He wouldn't frighten the game, for sure, but how could he
possibly get near it?
Everything became clear when Mr Fridriksson reminded me that this
calm person was only a hunter of eider, a bird whose plumage constitutes
the main resource of the island. Called eider-down, you do not need to
move a great deal to collect it.
During the first days of summer, the female eider, a kind of prettified
duck, goes and builds her nest amongst the rocks of the fjords47 which
fringe the coast. The nest built, she carpets it with fine feathers that she
tears from her stomach. Straightaway the hunter, or rather merchant, arrives,
takes the nest, and the female starts her work again. This continues
as long as she has any down left. When she is completely bare, it is the
male's turn to contribute his. But as the hard, rough feathers of the male
have no commercial value, the hunter does not bother to steal the future
brood's bed. So the nest is completed; the female lays her eggs; the babies
hatch; and, the following year, the hunting of the eider-down starts
again.
However, since the eider does not choose steep rocks to build her nest
on, but easy, horizontal ones sloping down into the sea, the Icelandic
hunter can practise his profession without too much commotion. He is a
farmer who doesn't have to sow the seed or cut his harvest, but merely
gather it in.
This serious, phlegmatic, silent type was called Hans Bjelke; and he
came with Mr Fridriksson's recommendations. He was our future guide 
and his manner contrasted singularly with my uncle's.
Nevertheless they got on well from the start. Neither of them discussed
prices; the one was ready to accept whatever was offered, the
other to pay whatever was asked. Never was a deal easier to reach.
According to their agreement, Hans undertook to guide us to the village
of Stapi, on the southern coast of the Snaefells peninsula and at the
very foot of the volcano. The distance by land was about twenty-two
miles, or two days' journey according to my uncle's reckoning.
But when he learned that these were Danish miles, of twenty-four
thousand feet apiece, he had to adjust his calculations, and plan on seven
or eight days' travel, given the poor quality of the tracks.
Four horses were to be put at our disposal, two for riding and two for
luggage. Hans would travel on foot, which he was used to. He knew this
part of the coast like the back of his hand, and promised to take us by the
shortest route.
His contract with my uncle did not expire when we arrived at Stapi. He
remained in his service for the total time necessary for his scientific excursions,
at the price of three rix-dollars per week.48 It was expressly
agreed that this sum would be paid to the guide each Saturday evening,
failing which his contract would be null and void.
 47 The name given to the long narrow inlets in Scandinavian countries. [JV]
48 16 francs 98 centimes. [JV] 
It was decided we would leave on 16 June. My uncle wanted to give
the hunter an advance on the agreement, but was rebuffed with a single
word.
'Efter.'49
'After,' said the professor for my edification.
Once the agreement had been reached, the hunter promptly left.
'He's perfect,' exclaimed my uncle. 'But he can hardly realise the brilliant
part he is going to play.'
'So he's coming with us. . . '
'. . . to the centre of the Earth.'
There were still forty-eight hours left, but, to my great regret, I had to
devote them to the preparations. All our intelligence was employed organising
things in the most useful way, the instruments here, the firearms
there, the tools in this package, the food in that. Four groups in all.
The instruments included:

1. A centigrade thermometer made by Eigel, graduated to 150  , which
didn't seem quite right to me. Too much if the temperature went up as far as
that, since we would be cooked. But not enough to measure the temperature of
hot springs or other molten substances.
2. A manometer operated by compressed air, designed to show pressures
greater than that at sea level. An ordinary barometer would not have been sufficient,
given that the atmospheric pressure was due to increase proportionally
with our descent underground.
3. A chronometer by Boissonnas Junior of Geneva, perfectly set to the Hamburg
meridian.
4. Two compasses to measure positive and negative inclination.
5. A night-glass.
6. Two Ruhmkorff50 lamps which used an electric current to give a highly
portable source of light, reliable and not too bulky.51
 49 'Efter': Icelandic: 'eftir', Danish: 'efter', Swedish: 'efter'. Hans's 'Danish' is
in fact mostly Swedish unlike the rest of the Danish in the book, which is more
or less authentic.
50 Ruhmkorff: Heinrich Daniel (1803-77), born in Hanover, worked in Paris,
invented miners' safety-lamp. It was in fact in 1858 that he was awarded the
50,000-franc prize for the most important discovery in the application of electricity
(the induction coil in 1851).
51 The Ruhmkorff apparatus consists of a Bunsen battery, activated by
means of potassium dichromate, which is odourless; an induction coil transmits
the electricity produced by the battery to a lantern of a particular nature. In this
lantern there is a glass coil under vacuum, in which there remains only a residue
of CO2 and nitrogen. When the apparatus is in operation, this gas becomes luminous,
producing a continuous white light. The battery and coil are placed in a
leather bag that the traveller wears over one shoulder. The lantern, placed outside,
provides more than sufficient light in total darkness. It allows one to venture
without fear of explosion amongst the most inflammable gases, and does
not go out even when immersed in the deepest rivers. M. Ruhmkorff is a learned
and skilful physicist. His great discovery is that of the induction coil, which allows
high-tension electricity to be produced. He has just obtained, in 1864, the prize 
The arms consisted of two rifles from Purdley More & Co. and two Colt
revolvers. Why take them? I didn't imagine we were going to encounter
all that many savages or wild beasts. But my uncle seemed very attached
to his arsenal and his instruments, and especially to a considerable quantity
of guncotton, which is unaffected by damp and whose explosive
power is far greater than that of ordinary powder.
The tools were two ice-picks, two pickaxes, one ladder made of silk,
three alpenstocks, one axe, one hammer, a dozen iron wedges and pitons,
and several long knotted ropes. This could not help making a large
packet, for the ladder alone was three hundred feet in length.
Finally there were the provisions. The parcel was not a big one, but
was reassuring, for I knew that it contained six months' supply of dried
meat and biscuits. Gin was the only liquid, with water totally absent: we
had flasks, and my uncle counted on springs to fill them. The objections I
raised as to their quality, temperature, and even existence were ignored.
To complete our list of travel items, I will mention a portable medical
kit containing blunt-bladed scissors, splints for fractures, a strip of holland
material, bandages and compresses, sticking-plaster, a basin for bloodletting terrifying
objects in themselves; but in addition a whole series of
bottles containing dextrin, surgical spirit, liquid acetate of lead, ether,
vinegar, and ammonia, all drugs of a frightening nature; and finally the
materials necessary for the Ruhmkorff lamps.
My uncle was careful not to forget a supply of tobacco, powder for
hunting, and tinder, nor a leather belt which he wore round his waist and
which contained an adequate supply of money in gold, silver, and paper
form. Six stout pairs of shoes, waterproofed by means of a coating of tar
and gutta-percha, fell into the category of 'miscellaneous items'.
'With such clothing, shoes, and equipment, there is no reason we
shouldn't go far,' declared my uncle.
The 14th was entirely taken up with organising the various items. In
the evening we dined at Baron Trampe's, in the company of the mayor of
Reykjavik and Dr Hyaltalin, the most distinguished physician in the country.
Mr Fridriksson was not amongst the guests; I learned later that the
governor and he were in disagreement on an administrative matter and
did not speak to each other. As a result I didn't have the opportunity of
understanding a single word of what was said during this semi-official
dinner. I noticed only that my uncle spoke all the time.
The following day, our preparations were finished. Our host delighted
the professor by presenting him with a chart of Iceland which was incomparably
better than Anderson's: it was the map drawn up by Mr Olaf Nikolas
Olsen, on a scale of 1:1480,000, published by the Icelandic Literary
Society and based on Messrs Scheel and Frizac's geodesic work and Mr
Bjorn Gunnlaugsson's topographical survey. It constituted a precious
document for a mineralogist.

of 50,000 francs that France awards every five years for the most ingenious application
of electricity. [JV] 
The last evening was spent in close conversation with Mr Fridriksson,
for whom I felt the warmest sympathy; after the talk came a rather agitated
sleep, for me at least.
At five o'clock, I was woken up by four horses whinnying and prancing
directly below my window. I dressed quickly and went outside. Hans was
finishing loading the luggage, almost without moving. He worked, however,
with an unusual degree of skill. My uncle was producing more heat
than light and the guide seemed to be taking very little notice of his recommendations.

Everything was ready by six. Mr Fridriksson shook our hands. With a
great deal of warmth and in Icelandic, my uncle thanked him for his kind
hospitality. As for myself, I strung together a cordial farewell in my best
Latin. Then we climbed into the saddles, and Mr Fridriksson accompanied
his final goodbye to me with that line from Virgil that seemed ready-made
for us, uncertain travellers on the road:
Et quacumque viam dederit fortuna sequamur.52
12
We left in overcast but settled weather. No exhausting heat to fear, no
disastrous rain. Weather for tourists.
The joy of riding through an unknown land made me easy to please at
the beginning of our venture. I was caught up in the happiness of those
who go on journeys, a feeling of hope mixed with a sense of freedom. I
began to feel involved in the trip.
'In any case, what do I risk? Travelling through a fascinating country,
going up a remarkable mountain, at worst climbing down an extinct crater!
It's clear that that's all Saknussemm ever did. As for the existence of
a tunnel leading straight to the centre of the globe: pure fantasy, totally
impossible! So let's get whatever good we can out of this expedition, and
not quibble too much about the rest.'
By the time my thoughts had got this far, we had left Reykjavik.
Hans walked in front, at a quick but regular and unchanging pace. The
two horses with our luggage followed him without having to be led. My
uncle and I came last, trying not to make too much of a sight of ourselves
on our small but hardy mounts.
Iceland is one of the biggest islands in Europe. Its surface stretches
across fourteen hundred miles, but it has only sixty thousand inhabitants.
Geographers have divided it into four parts, and it was the Region of the
South-West Quarter, 'Sudvestr Fjordjngr', that we had to cross, almost
diagonally.
On leaving Reykjavik, Hans had immediately followed the seashore.
We crossed thin pastures that made great efforts to be green: but yellow
had more success. The rugged summits of the trachytic53 hills faded away
amongst the mists on the eastern horizon. From time to time, patches of
 52 Et quacumque viam dederit fortuna sequamur: 'And whatever route fortune
gives, we shall follow' (The Aeneid, Book 11, v. 128).
53 trachytic: volcanic rocks with a rough or gritty surface. 
snow, concentrating the diffuse light, shone on the slopes of distant
mountains. A few peaks, standing up more firmly, pointed through the
grey clouds, to reappear above the shifting mists like bare reefs in an
open sky.
Often these chains of dry rocks pushed out towards the sea, eating
into the pasture, but there was always room to get past. In any case our
horses instinctively chose the best route without ever slowing their pace.
My uncle did not even have the consolation of using his voice or whip to
urge his mount forward: he had no excuse to be impatient. I couldn't help
smiling when I saw him so big on his little horse for, with his long legs
skimming the ground, he looked like a six-legged centaur.
'Nice animal, nice animal!' he kept saying. 'You will see, Axel, that a
creature more intelligent than the Icelandic horse does not exist. Snow,
storms, blocked paths, rocks, glaciers nothing stops him. He is brave, he
is cautious, he is reliable. Never a foot wrong, never a false reaction.
Should a stream appear, a fjord to be crossed and they will appear you
will see him throw himself unhesitatingly into the water like an amphibian
and swim across to the other side. If we do not upset him, if we let him
do as he wishes, we shall cover our twenty-five miles a day, the one carrying
the other.'
'We will, I'm sure; but what about the guide?'
'Oh, I am not worried about him. That sort of person walks without
noticing. Our guide moves so little that he cannot possibly get tired. In
any case, I will give him my horse if need be. I would soon get cramps if I
did not take some exercise. My arms feel all right, but one must not neglect
one's legs.'
We carried on meanwhile at a considerable pace. The countryside was
already virtually deserted. Here and there an isolated farm appeared, a
lonely boer54 built of wood, earth, and blocks of lava, like a beggar beside
a rough track. These dilapidated huts seemed to be imploring the charity
of passers-by, and one would almost have offered them alms. In this region
roads and even paths were completely lacking, and the vegetation,
however slow-growing, soon hid the traces of the rare travellers.
And yet this part of the province, a stone's throw from the capital, was
considered one of the inhabited and cultivated parts of Iceland. What
were the areas like then that were more deserted than this desert? After
half a mile we had still not seen a single farmer at the door of his cottage,
nor a single wild shepherd grazing a flock less wild than himself; only
some cows, plus a few sheep left to their own devices. What would the
regions in turmoil be like, broken by eruptions, born of volcanic explosions
and underground upheavals?
We were due to make their acquaintance later; but when I consulted
Olsen's map, I saw that we were avoiding them by following the winding
edge of the shore. The main eruptive movements are in fact concentrated
in the interior of the island. There, the horizontal strata of superimposed
 54 The house of an Icelandic peasant-farmer. [JV] 
rocks called trapps in the Scandinavian languages, the trachytic strips,
the eruptions of basalt, of tuff,55 of all the volcanic aggregates, the
streams of lava and of molten porphyry, have produced a country of supernatural
horror. I hardly realised at this stage what a sight awaited us
on the Snaefells peninsula, where the damage wrought by an impulsive
Nature forms a fearsome chaos.
Two hours after leaving Reykjavik, we arrived at the aoalkirkja ('main
church' or 'settlement') of Gufunes. It contained nothing special. Just a
handful of houses. Hardly enough for a hamlet in Germany.
Hans decided to stop there for half an hour; he shared our frugal
breakfast, replied 'yes' or 'no' to my uncle's questions about the nature of
the road, and when asked where he intended to spend the night:
'Garear,' was all he would say.
I looked at the map to find out what Garear was. I located a small
community of this name on the shore of the Hvalfjord, four 'miles' away
from Reykjavik. I showed it to my uncle.
'Only four miles!' he said. 'Four out of twenty-two! Just a pleasant
stroll.'
He tried to say something to the guide, who did not reply but took up
his position at the head of the horses and set off again.
Three hours later, still travelling over the faded grass of the pastures,
we had to work our way around the Kollafjord, as detouring round this estuary
was easier and quicker than crossing it. Soon we had reached a
pingstar ('village administrative unit') called Ejulberg, whose tower would
have struck twelve, if the Icelandic churches had been rich enough to
possess a clock; but they closely resemble their parishioners, who have
no watches, but manage quite well without.
The horses were watered there; and afterwards took us along a shore
squeezed in between the sea and a chain of hills, then carried us without
stopping to the aoalkirkja of Brantar, and then a mile further to Saurboer56
Annexia ('church annex'), situated on the southern shores of the
Hvalfjord.
It was now four o'clock, and we had covered four 'miles'.57
The fjord was at least half a 'mile' wide at this point; the waves
crashed noisily on to the sharp rocks; this bay opened out between high
rocky walls, a sort of vertical scarp three thousand feet high, with remarkable
brown strata separated by tuff beds of a reddish tinge. However
intelligent our horses were, I was not looking forward to crossing a real
sea-estuary on the back of a four-legged animal.
'If they really are smart,' I said, 'they won't try and cross. In any
case, I'm planning to be smart on their behalf.'
But my uncle didn't want to wait. He spurred his horse on towards the
shore. His mount sniffed slightly at the swell lapping at the edge and
stopped. My uncle, who had his own instinct, urged it on all the more. An-
 55 tuff: produced by the consolidation of volcanic ash.
56 Saurboer: modern SaurbFr.
57 Twenty miles. [JV] 
other refusal from the beast, who shook his head. Next, oaths and an application
of the whip, but kicks from the creature, who began to unsaddle
the rider. Finally the small horse, bending his knees, withdrew from the
professor's legs and left him standing there on two seashore rocks, like
the Colossus of Rhodes.
'Cursed animal!' shouted the rider, suddenly converted into a pedestrian,
as humiliated as a cavalry officer turned infantryman.
'Farja,' said the guide, touching him on the shoulder.
'What, a ferry?'
'Der,' replied Hans, pointing to a boat.
'Yes,' I called out, 'there's a ferry.'
'You should have said so earlier! Well, come on!'
'Tidvatten.'
'What's he saying?'
'He's saying "tide",' translated my uncle from the Danish.
'We presumably have to wait for the tide?'
'Forbida?'
'Ja.'58
My uncle stamped his foot, while the horses headed for the ferry.
I perfectly understood the need to wait for a particular moment of the
tide before starting to cross the fjord: the moment when the sea has
reached its highest level and so is not moving. The ebb and flow are not
felt then and the ferry is not in danger of being carried to the bottom of
the bay or out to the open sea.
The right time only arrived at six o'clock. My uncle, myself, the guide,
two ferrymen, and the four horses had got on to a sort of flatboat which
looked rather fragile. Accustomed as I was to the steam ferries on the
Elbe, I found the boatmen's oars an unimpressive mechanical device. It
took more than an hour to cross the fjord; but finally we arrived without
incident.
Half an hour later, we had reached the aoalkirkja of Garear.
13
It should have been dark, but on the sixty-fifth parallel I was not surprised
to see light during the night in the Arctic regions: in June and July
in Iceland the sun never sets.
Nevertheless, the temperature had gone down. I was cold and above
all hungry. Most welcome was the boer which hospitably opened to receive
us.
It was a peasant's house but worth a king's in terms of hospitality.
When we arrived, the master came to shake our hands and, without further
ado, indicated we should follow him into the house.
'Follow him', for it would have been impossible to go in at the same
time. A long, narrow, dark passage led into this dwelling constructed of
beams that had hardly been squared off. It gave access to each of the
 58 'Farja': Danish: 'farvel', Swedish: 'farja'; 'Der': Danish and Swedish: 'dar';
'Tidvatten' and 'forbida' ('wait'): Swedish; 'Ja': Danish and Swedish. 
rooms: the kitchen, the weaving workshop, the badstofa (family bedroom),
and, the best of all, the visitors' bedroom. My uncle, whose height
had not been remotely considered when the house was built, duly hit his
head three or four times against the projections of the ceiling.
We were shown into our room, which was quite large and had an
earthen floor and a window with panes made of rather opaque sheep
membranes. The bed was dry straw heaped into two wooden frames
painted red and ornamented with maxims in Icelandic. I was not expecting
such comfort; but the house was pervaded with a strong smell of
dried fish, marinated meat, and sour milk which rather upset my nose.
After setting down our travellers' saddlery, we heard our host's voice
inviting us into the kitchen, the only room with a fire even during the very
coldest weather.
My uncle hastened to follow this hospitable suggestion. I followed suit.
The kitchen chimney was of the classical sort: just a primitive stone as
a hearth in the middle of the room, with a hole in the roof to let the
smoke out. The kitchen also served as the dining-room.
When we came in, our host, as if seeing us for the first time, greeted
us with the word 'sFllvertu', which means 'be happy', and came and
kissed us on the cheek.
His wife pronounced the same word in turn, accompanied by the same
greeting; then the two of them, putting their right hands on their hearts,
bowed deeply.
I hasten to add that the Icelandic woman was the mother of nineteen
children, some small and some big and all chaotically teeming in the spirals
of smoke filling the room from the hearth. At each moment I caught
sight of another little blond head of some melancholy emerging from the
cloud. It was exactly like a line of angels who had forgotten to wash their
faces.
My uncle and I gave a very warm welcome to the brood; soon we had
three or four of the urchins on our shoulders, the same number on our
laps, and the others between our knees. Those who could speak repeated
'saellvertu' in all imaginable pitches. Those who could not merely shouted
louder.
The concert was interrupted by the meal being announced. At this
moment the hunter came back, having seen to the horses' food by thriftily
letting them out on the countryside. The poor beasts had to be satisfied
with chewing the rare mosses on the rocks and some seaweed without
much sustenance: the following day they would be sure to come of
their own accord to continue the work of the day before.
'SFllvertu,' said Hans.
Then, calmly, automatically, without one kiss being different from another,
he greeted the host, the hostess, and their nineteen children.
Once the ceremony was over, we moved to table, all twenty-four of
us, and consequently some literally on top of the others. The luckiest
ones had only two urchins on their knees. 
However, silence fell across the whole community when the soup arrived,
and the natural Icelandic taciturnity, even amongst the youngsters,
came back. Our host served us a lichen soup which was not unpleasant,
then an enormous portion of dried fish swimming in butter that had been
soured for twenty years, and was consequently much to be preferred to
fresh butter according to the gastronomic ideas of Iceland. With it was
skyr, a sort of curdled milk, served with biscuits and sweetened with the
juice of juniper berries; and finally, as a drink, whey mixed with water,
called blanda in this country. If this remarkable food was good or not, I
was unable to judge. I was hungry and, when the dessert came, swallowed
every last mouthful of the thick buckwheat porridge.
After the meal was finished, the children disappeared; the adults
grouped round the hearth which was burning with peat, heather, cowpats,
and the bones from the dried fish. Then, after this 'taking of the heat', the
various groups went to their respective rooms. The hostess, as was the
custom, offered to take off our stockings and trousers but, following our
gracious declining of this offer, did not insist, and I was finally able to curl
up in my straw bedding.
The following day, at five o'clock, we bade the Icelandic farmer farewell,
although my uncle had great difficulty in making him accept sufficient
payment; and finally Hans gave the signal for departure.
Less than a hundred yards from Garear, the appearance of the landscape
began to change: the ground became marshy and the going less
easy. On the right the chain of mountains ex-tended indefinitely, in a
huge system of natural fortifications, of which we were following the
counterscarp; often there were streams which had to be forded, without
getting the bags too wet.
The wasteland was getting more and more deserted. Sometimes, nevertheless,
a human shadow in the distance seemed to be shunning contact.
If the bends of the path unexpectedly brought us near one of these
ghosts, I felt a sudden disgust at the sight of a swollen head with shiny
skin devoid of hair and repulsive wounds showing through the rents in the
miserable rags.
The unhappy creature did not come to hold out his deformed hand; he
ran away instead, but not before Hans had had time to greet him with the
customary 'saellvertu'.
'Spetelsk,' he said.59
'A leper!'
This single word produced a frightful effect. The horrible affliction of
leprosy is relatively common in Iceland; it is not contagious, but is hereditary:
accordingly the wretched creatures are forbidden to marry.
These wraith-like figures were hardly calculated to add joy to the
countryside, which was becoming deeply depressing, as the last patches
of grass died under our feet. Not a single tree, if one excludes a few
thickets of dwarf birches similar to brushwood. Not a single animal, ex-
 59 'Spetelsk': Danish: 'spedalsk'; Swedish: 'spetalsk'. 
cept a few horses that their owner could not feed and which wandered
over the sad plains. Sometimes a falcon glided amongst the grey clouds
and fled in full flight towards some southern clime; I let myself become
absorbed in the melancholy of this untamed nature, and my memories
took me back to my native land.
Soon we had to cross several insignificant little fjords, and finally a
real bay; the tide, steady at this time, allowed us to traverse without
waiting and thus reach the hamlet of Alftanes, a 'mile' further on the
other side.
In the evening, after fording across two rivers teeming with trout and
pike, the Alfta and Heta, we were obliged to spend the night in a tumbledown
abandoned cottage, worthy of being haunted by all the goblins of
Scandinavian mythology; the god of cold had clearly taken up residence
there, and he was up to his tricks the whole night.
The following day presented no particular incident. Still the same
marshy ground, the same uniform view, the same sad features. In the
evening we had covered half the total distance, and slept in the annexia
at Krosolbt.
On 19 June, a bed of lava extended beneath our feet for about a
'mile'; this kind of ground is called hraun locally; the lava, wrinkled on the
surface, produced shapes like thick ropes, either simply stretched out or
coiled up on themselves. A huge lava flow came down from the
neighbouring mountains, now extinct volcanoes, but whose remnants testified
to the violence of the past. A few wreaths of steam from hot springs
still crept here and there.
We had little time to marvel at these phenomena; we had to push on.
Soon the marshy ground came back under our horses' feet, criss-crossed
by little lakes. We were now proceeding in a westerly direction; we had
worked our way round the great Faxa Bay, and the two white peaks of
Snaefells stood erect amongst the clouds less than five 'miles' away.
The horses were moving well; the problems of the terrain did not stop
them. For my part I was beginning to feel very tired; my uncle remained
as stiff and as upright as on the first day; I could not help admiring him
as much as the hunter, who considered this expedition a simple stroll.
On Saturday, 20 June, at 6 p.m., we got to Budir, a village on the seacoast,
and the guide asked for his agreed pay. My uncle settled the sum.
It was Hans's own family his uncles and first cousins who offered their
hospitality. We were kindly welcomed, and without wishing to abuse the
generosity of these good people, I would have been very glad to recover
from the fatigues of the journey in their house. But my uncle, who had
nothing to recover from, didn't see it that way; and the following day we
had to straddle our good old mounts once more.
The ground was affected by being near the mountain, with granite
roots emerging from the earth like those of an old oak. We were working
our way round the huge base of the volcano. The professor couldn't take
his eyes off it; he waved his arms, he seemed to be sending challenges to
it, as if saying: 'That's the giant I am going to slay!' Finally, after four 
hours' ride, the horses stopped of their own accord at the front door of
Stapi parsonage.
14
Stapi is a settlement of about thirty shacks, built on the lava itself and
in the rays of the sun reflected from the volcano. It lies at the end of a little
fjord which forms part of a basalt wall of a most curious appearance.
It needs no repeating that basalt is a dark brown rock of igneous origin.
It takes on regular forms which produce surprising patterns. Nature
proceeds geometrically here, working in the human fashion, as if she had
used a set square, a pair of compasses, and a plumb-line. If in every
other case her art consists of great heaps strewn in disorder, barely
formed cones, imperfect pyramids, strange collections of lines here,
wanting to provide an example of regularity, and working before the architects
of the first ages, she has constructed a severe order which has
never been surpassed, even in the marvels of Babylon or the wonders
that were Greece.
I had of course heard of the Giants' Causeway in Ireland and Fingal's
Cave on one of the Hebrides, but I had never actually seen the display of
a basalt construction.
Here at Stapi, I was able to appreciate the full beauty of the phenomenon.

The walls of the fjord, like the whole coast of the peninsula, were
made up of a series of vertical columns, thirty feet tall. These straight
shafts of perfect proportions supported an archivolt made of horizontal
columns, whose overhang produced a half-vault over the sea. At intervals
in this natural impluvium, one's eye detected arched openings of a superb
design, through which rushed and foamed the waves from the open sea.
A few basalt sections, torn off by the ocean's furies, were stretched out on
the ground like the remains of a classical temple, ruins eternally young,
over which the centuries would pass without leaving any mark.
This was the last overnight stop of our overland journey. Hans had
brought us here with intelligence, and I drew some reassurance from the
thought that he was to accompany us further.
When we arrived at the door of the rector's house, a simple low-built
croft that was no finer and no more comfortable than its neighbours, I
found a man shoeing a horse, hammer in hand and dressed in a leather
apron.
'Saellvertu,' the hunter said.
'God dag,' replied the shoeing-smith in perfect Danish.
'Kyrkoherde,' said Hans, turning to my uncle.
'The rector! It seems, Axel, that this good man is the rector.'
In the meantime the guide had been explaining the situation to the
kyrkoherde: interrupting his work, this man shouted out in a way presumably
designed for horses and horse dealers, and immediately a big,
ugly woman came out of the croft. If she was not six feet tall, the difference
wasn't worth mentioning. 
I was afraid that she might offer the travellers an Icelandic kiss; but
this didn't happen and nor did she demonstrate very good grace in showing
us into her house.
The guest-room seemed to me the worst in the parsonage, narrow,
dirty, and foul-smelling. But we had no choice. The rector apparently
didn't practise the traditional hospitality. Far from it. Before the day was
out, I could see that we were dealing with a blacksmith, a fisherman, a
hunter, a carpenter, and not at all with a minister of the Lord. We were in
mid-week, it has to be admitted. Perhaps he made up for it on Sundays.
I do not wish to criticise these poor priests who are, after all, perfectly
wretched: they get a ludicrous income from the Danish government and
receive a quarter of a tithe from their parish, which does not even add up
to sixty marks at present-day values.60 Hence the need to work for a living.
But by fishing, hunting, and shoeing horses, one ends up adopting
the manners, tone, and habits of hunters, fishermen, and other slightly
rustic people. That same evening I noticed that amongst our host's virtues,
sobriety did not figure.
My uncle quickly understood what sort of man he was dealing with:
instead of a fine, dignified scholar, he found a heavy, rude countryman.
He accordingly resolved to begin his great expedition as soon as possible
and to leave this inhospitable rectory. Ignoring his tiredness, he decided
we would spend a few days in the mountains.
Preparations for leaving were accordingly made the day after arriving
at Stapi. Hans hired the services of three Icelanders to replace the horses
carrying the luggage; once we got to the bottom of the crater, these locals
would have to turn back, leaving us on our own. That point was made
clear.
At this juncture, my uncle had to tell the hunter of his intention to
continue his exploration of the volcano to its furthermost limits.
Hans merely inclined his head. Whether he went there or somewhere
else, whether he plunged into the innards of his island or travelled over
its surface, made no difference to him. I myself had rather forgotten
about the future, distracted until this point by the events of the journey 
but now felt my emotions taking hold of me more than ever. What could I
do? If I had wanted to try and stand up to Professor Lidenbrock, it should
have been in Hamburg and not at the foot of Snaefells.
One idea above all others worried me tremendously, a terrifying idea
that might unsettle nerves stronger than mine.
'So,' I said to myself, 'we're going to climb Snaefells. Fine. We're going
to have a look at its crater. Good. Others have done it and lived to tell
the tale. But that is not all. If a path appears going down into the bowels
of the Earth, if that wretched Saknussemm was telling the truth, we're
going to get lost in the underground galleries of the volcano. But there's
nothing to say that Snaefells really is extinct! What proves that an eruption
is not in preparation? Because the monster has been asleep since
 60 Hamburg unit, about 90 francs. [JV] 
1229,61 does it necessarily follow that it won't wake up again? And if it
does wake up, what will happen to us?'
It was certainly worth thinking about; which I was doing most seriously.
I couldn't sleep without dreaming of eruptions. And playing the part
of scoria seemed to me rather difficult.
In the end I couldn't stand it any more. I decided to put the case to
my uncle as skilfully as possible, presenting it as a hypothesis which
couldn't possibly be put into practice.
I went and found him. I shared my fears with him, and then retreated
so that he could explode unhindered.
'I've been thinking about it,' was his only reply.
What did these words mean? Was he going to listen to the voice of
reason? Was he thinking of giving up his projects? It seemed much too
good to be true.
After a few moments of silence, during which I did not dare to question
him, he continued:
'I had thought of it. Since we arrived in Stapi, I have anxiously considered
the critical question you have just put to me, for we must not be
hasty.'
'No, we mustn't,' I said emphatically.
'Although Snaefells has been silent for six hundred years, it might
speak again. But eruptions are always preceded by perfectly well-known
phenomena. I have therefore questioned the local inhabitants, I have surveyed
the ground, and I can assure you, Axel, that there will not be an
eruption.'
I stood flabbergasted at this statement, and was not able to reply.
'Do you not believe me?' said my uncle. 'Well then: follow me.'
I obeyed without thinking. Leaving the rectory, the professor took a
direct route which led through a gap in the basalt rock-face, heading
inland. Soon we were out in open country, if that term can be used for a
huge waste-ground of discarded volcanic material. The country appeared
flattened under a hail of huge boulders, of trapp, basalt, granite, and all
the pyroxenic rocks.62
Here and there I could see exhalations rising in the air: these white
mists, called reykir in Icelandic, came from hot springs, and their intensity
showed the volcanic activity of the ground. This seemed to me to justify
my fears. So I fell off my stool when my uncle said:
'Do you see all that steam, Axel? Well, it proves that we have nothing
to fear from the fury of the volcano!'
'I don't believe it!'
'Listen carefully. When an eruption is on the way, the steam increases
considerably; but then disappears completely when the phenomenon is
actually happening, for the expanding gas no longer has the required
pressure, and heads for the craters instead of escaping through the
 61 1229: cf. '1219' in ch. 6.
62 pyroxenic rocks: any of a large group of dark-coloured minerals containing
silicates of magnesium, iron, and calcium. 
cracks of the globe. If therefore this steam stays in its normal state, if its
force does not increase, if you add to such an observation that the wind
and rain are not replaced by a heavy, calm atmosphere, you can safely
say that there will not be an immediate eruption.'
'But. . . '
'Enough. When science has spoken, one can only remain silent thereafter!'

I returned to the parsonage a little hangdog. My uncle had defeated
me by means of scientific arguments. I had one remaining hope, however:
that once we got to the bottom of the crater, it would be impossible,
for lack of a gallery, to go any deeper, in spite of all the Saknussemms
in the world.
I spent the night in the clutches of a nightmare; I was in the middle of
a volcano in the depths of the Earth, I felt as if I was being thrown into
interplanetary space in the form of eruptive rock.
The following day, 23 June, Hans was waiting for us with his companions,
who were loaded down with food, tools, and instruments. Two of the
iron-tipped sticks, two rifles, and two cartridge-belts were set aside for
my uncle and myself. Hans, a man of foresight, had added to our bags a
full goatskin water bottle which, together with our flasks, meant that we
had water for a week.
It was 9 a.m. The rector and his huge bad-tempered wife were waiting
in front of the door. They presumably wished to give us the last farewell
that a host addresses to the traveller. But this farewell took the unexpected
shape of a formidable bill, which charged even for the air of the
pastoral house, far from fresh air I may say. The worthy couple held us to
ransom like a Swiss innkeeper and put a high price on their overrated
hospitality.
My uncle paid without quibbling. A man who was leaving for the centre
of the Earth sniffed at a few rix-dollars.
Once the matter was settled, Hans gave the signal for departure, and
a few moments later we had left Stapi.
15
Snaefells is five thousand feet high. Its double cone marks the end of
a trachytic strip which is separate from the main relief system of the island.
From our point of departure we couldn't see its two peaks in profile
against the greyish background of the sky. I could only see an enormous
snowy cap lowered on the giant's forehead.
We were walking in single file, following the hunter; he was climbing
up narrow paths where two men couldn't have proceeded abreast. All
conversation therefore became more or less impossible.
Beyond the basalt wall of Stapi fjord we encountered first a peaty soil,
fibrous and herbaceous, the remains of the age-old vegetation of the
marshes on the peninsula; these quantities of fuel, which have never
been put to use, would be sufficient to heat the whole population of Iceland
for a century. The huge peatbog, to judge from the bottom of the ra-
vines in it, was often seventy feet deep and consisted of successive layers
of carbonised refuse, separated by thin sheets of pumiceous tuff.
As a true nephew of Professor Lidenbrock, and despite my worries, I
examined with interest the mineralogical curiosities displayed in this vast
natural history collection. At the same time my mind ran through the
whole geological history of Iceland.
This extraordinary island clearly emerged from the watery depths at a
relatively recent period. It is perhaps still rising imperceptibly. If indeed
so, its origin can only be attributed to the work of underground fires. Accordingly,
in such a case, Sir Humphry Davy's theory, Saknussemm's
document, my uncle's claims, all went up in smoke. This hypothesis led
me to examine the nature of the ground closely, and I was soon able to
observe the successive phenomena governing its formation.
Iceland, which has no sedimentary terrain at all, is composed uniquely
of volcanic tuff, that is of an agglomeration of stones and rocks of a porous
texture. Before the volcanoes appeared, it consisted of a trappean
massif, slowly lifted above the waves by the pressure of the forces in the
centre. The central fires had not yet burst out.
But later a wide slit cut its way diagonally from the south-west to the
north-east of the island, and the whole trachytic magma gradually poured
out. At that time the phenomenon happened without violence, for the exit
was very large, and the molten matter, thrown up by the vitals of the
globe, spread quietly out in vast sheets or mammary bulges. The feldspars,
syenites, and porphyries appeared during this period.
But thanks to this effusion, the thickness of the island increased considerably,
and consequently its resistance. One can imagine what quantities
of gas under pressure were built up in its breast when there was no
longer any way out after the cooling of the trachytic crust. There came
therefore a moment when the mechanical force of these gases was such
as to lift up the heavy crust and to create high chimneys. Hence this volcano's
raising of the outermost crust, and then the sudden piercing of a
crater at the top of the volcano.
After the eruptive phenomena came the volcanic ones. Through the
recently made openings escaped first the basaltic dejecta, of which the
plain we were crossing at this moment offered us the most splendid
specimens. We were walking over these heavy dark-grey rocks that the
cooling down had moulded into prisms with hexagonal bases. In the distance
could be seen a large number of flattened cones, each of which was
formerly a fire-breathing mouth.
Then, when the basaltic eruption was exhausted, the volcano, which
drew its strength from that of the extinct craters, gave passage to the
lavas and to those tuffs made up of cinders and scoria whose long spreadout
rivulets I could see on its shoulders, like an opulent head of hair.
Such were the successive phenomena that had constructed Iceland.
All of them came from the effect of the internal fires, and to suppose that
the interior did not remain in a permanent state of white-hot flux was 
pure madness. It was madness, especially, to claim to be able to reach
the centre of the globe!
So I was reassuring myself about the results of our undertaking as we
moved in to attack Snaefells.
The route was becoming more and more difficult; the ground was
climbing; the loose rocks were easily displaced and it needed the most
careful concentration to avoid dangerous falls.
Hans carried calmly on, as if moving over unbroken ground. Sometimes
he passed behind huge boulders and we lost sight of him for a moment but
then a piercing whistle would spring from his lips to tell us
which way to go. Often he would stop, pick up loose pieces of rock and
arrange them into beacons in a recognisable fashion, so as to mark the
way back. An admirable precaution in itself, but one that would be made
useless by future events.
Three hours' tiring march had only brought us as far as the base of
the mountain. At this point Hans called a halt, and we shared a quick
lunch. My uncle took double mouthfuls to save time. But since this halt
was also a rest period, he was forced to wait until the guide was completely
ready: he gave the signal for departure an hour later. The three
Icelanders, as taciturn as their hunter companion, didn't utter a single
word and ate soberly.
We now began to move up the slopes of Snaefells. By an optical illusion
common with mountains, its snow-covered summit seemed to me
very close; and yet, how many long hours it took to reach it! Above all,
what fatigue! The stones, not held together by earth or grass, rolled from
under our feet and disappeared towards the plain at the speed of an avalanche.

At certain places, the sides of the mountain made an angle of at least
36  with the horizon. It was impossible to climb them, and we had to
work our way round these steep rock-strewn slopes with considerable difficulty.
In such cases we helped each other by means of sticks.
I have to say that my uncle kept close to me as often as possible. He
never lost sight of me and on quite a few occasions his arm provided solid
support. He himself undoubtedly had an innate sense of balance for he
never hesitated. The Icelanders climbed with the sure-footedness of highlanders,
despite their heavy loads.
To judge from the height of the peak of Snaefells, I assumed it was
impossible for us to reach it from this side, unless the angle of the slope
decreased. Fortunately, after an hour of tiring efforts and considerable
feats, a sort of staircase suddenly appeared in the middle of a vast carpet
of snow built up on top of the volcano, and this helped our climb. It was
formed by one of those rivers of stones (called stina in Icelandic) thrown
out by the eruptions. If this river hadn't been stopped dead by the shape
of the mountain's flanks, it would have thrown itself into the sea, and
thus formed new islands.
As it was, it helped a great deal. The steepness of the slope increased,
but the stone steps meant that it could be climbed without problem. So 
quick was our progress that, remaining behind for a moment while my
companions carried on up, I saw that they were already reduced to microscopic
size by the distance.
By seven in the evening we had climbed the two thousand steps of the
staircase. We stood at the top of a big swelling of the mountain, a sort of
base on which rested the cone forming the crater.
The sea stretched out at a depth of 3,200 feet. We were above the
line of perpetual snows, at a relatively low level in Iceland because of the
constant humidity of the climate. It was bitterly cold. The wind blew hard.
I felt utterly exhausted. The professor saw clearly that my legs were refusing
to carry me and decided to stop, despite his impatience. He therefore
made a sign to the hunter, who shook his head saying:
'Ofvanfor.'
'Apparently we need to go higher.'
He asked Hans the reason for his reply.
'Mistour.'
'Ya, mistour,' repeated one of the Icelanders in a frightened tone.
'What does the word mean?' I asked anxiously.
'Look there,' replied my uncle.
I turned to look at the plain. An immense column of ground-up pumice-stone,
sand, and dust was climbing, swirl-ing like a waterspout. The
wind was driving it against the flank of Snaefells, which we were now
clinging to. This opaque curtain, spread out before the sun, threw a large
shadow over the whole mountain. If the waterspout leaned over, it would
inevitably embrace us in its swirls. Such a phenomenon, called mistour in
Icelandic, is quite common when the wind blows in from the glaciers.
'Hastigt, hastigt,'63 shouted the guide.
Without knowing Danish, I understood that we had to follow Hans as
quickly as possible. He began to work his way round the cone of the crater,
at an angle to make the going easier. Soon the waterspout crashed
down on the mountain, which quivered at the
shock; the stones caught up in the eddies rained down as if in an
eruption. Fortunately we were on the other side and sheltered from all
danger. If it hadn't been for the guide's precaution, our torn bodies would
have been pulverised and dropped far awa
y like the product of some unknown meteor.
However, Hans didn't consider it prudent to spend the night on the
side of the cone. We continued our zigzagging ascent. The fifteen hundred
feet still to be covered took nearly five hours, for the detours, paths at an
angle, and retreats measured at least eight miles. I couldn't go on: I was
overcome by cold and hunger. The air was slightly rarefied and insufficient
to fill my lungs.
Finally, at eleven at night, very much in darkness, we reached the
summit of Snaefells. Before going to shelter inside the crater, I caught
 63 'hastigt': Danish: 'hastig', Swedish: 'hastigt'. 
sight of the midnight sun at the lowest point in its life's course, sending
its pale rays over the island sleeping at my feet.
16
Supper was quickly swallowed and the mini-expedition settled down
as well as it could. The ground was very hard, the shelter fragile, the
situation very uncomfortable at five thousand feet above sea level. But
my sleep was especially calm that night, one of the best I'd spent for a
long time. I didn't even dream.
In the morning we woke up half-frozen by a glacial temperature but in
the rays of a fine sun. I got up from my granite bed to go and enjoy the
magnificent spectacle laid out before my eyes.
I was standing on the southern summit of Snaefells's twin peaks. The
panorama extended over most of the island. As at all great heights, the
perspective lifted up the shores while the central parts seemed to have
sunk. You would have thought that one of Helbesmer's relief-maps was
spread beneath my feet. I saw deep valleys criss-crossing in every direction,
chasms opening up like shafts, lakes turned into ponds, rivers become
brooks. On my right were endless glaciers and repeated peaks,
some of them plumed with light smoke. The undulations of these infinite
mountains, whose layers of snow made them appear foaming, reminded
me of the surface of a rough sea. If I turned towards the west, the ocean
spread out its magnificent expanse like a continuation of the white horses
of the summits. I could hardly see where the land stopped and the swell
began.
I plunged into that high-blown ecstasy produced by lofty peaks, without
feeling dizzy this time, as I was finally getting used to these sublime
contemplations. My dazzled eyes bathed in the clear irradiation of the
sun's rays. I forgot who I was, where I was, and lived the life of elves and
sylphs, those imaginary inhabitants of Scandinavian mythology. I was intoxicated
by the voluptuous pleasure of the heights, oblivious of the
depths my fate was shortly going to plunge me into. But I was brought
back to reality by the arrival of the professor and Hans, joining me at the
very summit.
Turning to the west my uncle pointed towards a slight mist, a haze, a
hint of land above the line of the waves.
'Greenland.'
'Greenland?'
'Yes, we're less than ninety miles away,64 and during the thaws the
polar bears come as far as Iceland, carried down from the north on ice
floes. But that is of little importance. We are at the summit of Snaefells,
with its twin peaks, one to the north and the other to the south. Hans will
tell us what the Icelanders call the one bearing us at this instant.'
The hunter duly replied to his question:
'Scartaris.'
 64 90 miles away: the shortest distance from Iceland to Greenland is in fact
about 180 miles. 
My uncle looked at me in triumph.
'To the crater!'
The crater of Snaefells formed an inverted cone whose mouth was
probably slightly more than a mile across. It seemed to me to be about
two thousand feet deep. One should imagine the state of such a receptacle
when it was filling up with thunder and flames. The bottom of the funnel
was only about five hundred feet in circumference, so its relatively
gentle slopes allowed one to reach the lower part with ease. I couldn't
help comparing this crater to an enormous widened-out blunderbuss; and
the comparison terrified me.
'To climb down into a blunderbuss,' I thought, 'when it may be loaded
and could go off at the least shock, you've got to be crazy.'
But there was no going back. With an indifferent expression, Hans
took the lead. I followed him without a word.
In order to make the going easier, Hans described greatly lengthened
ellipses on the inside of the cone. We had to pass amongst stones from
eruptions, some of which, when loosened from their crevices, would rebound
and rush down to the bottom of the chasm. Their fall produced
waves of strange-sounding echoes.
Parts of the cone were covered with internal glaciers. Hans moved
forward here with tremendous caution, prodding the ground with his irontipped
stick, looking for crevasses. At some of the difficult parts, we had
to tie ourselves together with a long rope, so that if by chance one of us
happened to slip, he would be held up by his companions. This solidarity
constituted a useful precaution, but did not remove all danger.
Despite the difficulties of climbing down slopes unknown to the guide,
we covered the distance without incident, except for the fall of a packet of
ropes which slipped from the hands of one of the Icelanders, and took the
shortest route towards the bottom of the chasm.
We arrived at midday. I looked up and saw the high mouth of the
cone framing part of the sky: an almost perfect circle, but with a dramatically
reduced circumference. Only at one point did the peak of Scartaris
stand out and plunge into the huge space.
At the bottom of the crater opened three vents through which, at the
time when Snaefells used to erupt, the central fire forced its lava and its
steam. Each of these chimneys was about a hundred feet across. There
they were, wide open, beneath our feet. I didn't dare look down into
them. As for Professor Lidenbrock, he had quickly examined their shape
and size. He was breathing heavily, running from one to the other, waving
his arms and shouting unintelligible words. Hans and his companions sat
on hummocks of lava and watched: they clearly took him for a madman.
Suddenly my uncle cried out. At first I thought he had lost his footing
and fallen into one of the three holes. But then I saw him, standing with
arms outstretched and legs apart in front of a granite boulder placed at
the centre of the crater, like an enormous pedestal designed for a statue 
of Pluto.65 He stood like a man dumbstruck, but it soon turned instead
into an insane happiness.
'Axel, Axel! Come here, down here!'
I ran down. Hans and the Icelanders stayed exactly where they were.
'Look!' said the professor.
Dumbstruck like him, but markedly less happy, I read on the western
side of the boulder, in runic characters gnawed by time, the thousandtimes-accursed
name:
'Arne Saknussemm!' shouted my uncle. 'Can you have any doubt
now?'
I didn't reply, but came back to my lava seat in a state of total confusion.
I was crushed by the evidence.
How long I spent sunk in my thoughts I don't know. All I'm certain of
is that when I looked up again I found my uncle and Hans alone at the
bottom of the crater. The Icelanders had been dismissed, and were now
climbing down the outer slopes of Snaefells on their way back to Stapi.
Hans was quietly sleeping at the foot of a rock, in a lava channel
where he had improvised a bed. My uncle was walking up and down the
floor of the crater, like some wild animal in a trap dug by a hunter. I had
neither the strength nor the desire to get up, and, imitating the guide,
slipped into a harrowing doze, thinking I could hear noises or feel shivers
in the sides of the mountain.
That was how our first night at the bottom of the crater was spent.
The following day, a grey sky, cloudy and heavy, lowered over the
summit of the cone. I noticed this less from the darkness of the chasm
than from the anger that took hold of my uncle.
I understood why, and a last feeling of hope came back to me. The
reason was as follows:
Of the three routes open under out feet, only one had been followed
by Saknussemm. According to the Icelandic scholar, it was to be identified
by the particularity described in the cryptogram, namely that the shadow
of Scartaris came and played along its edge during the last few days of
the month of June.
This sharp peak could thus be considered the style of a huge sundial,
whose silhouette on a given day marked the way to the centre of our globe.
If by chance the sun was not there, no shadow. Consequently no sign.
It was 25 June. Should the sky stay overcast for six more days, the observation
would have to be put off for another year.
I will not attempt to describe Professor Lidenbrock's impotent rage. The
day passed without a shadow coming down to the bottom of the crater.
Hans didn't move from where he was, although he must have wondered
what we were waiting for if he wondered anything! My uncle didn't address
a single word to me. His eyes, invariably turned to the sky, blended
into the grey and misty background.
 65 Pluto: the Greek god of the Underworld. 
On the 26th, still nothing. Rain mixed with snow fell during the day.
Hans built a hut with pieces of lava. I took some pleasure from watching
the thousands of improvised cascades running down the sides of the cone,
with each of its stones adding to the deafening murmur.
My uncle could no longer hold himself back. The most patient man could
legitimately be irritated, for this really was like sinking while coming into
harbour.
But Heaven constantly mixes great joys with great sorrows, and it was
preparing a satisfaction for Professor Lidenbrock equal to his terrible disappointments.

The sky was still covered the following day. But on Sunday, 28 June, the
third last day of the month, the change of moon coincided with a change in
the weather. The sun poured its abundant rays down into the crater. Each
hummock, each rock, each boulder, each bump, had its share of the luminous
flow and instantly cast its shadow on the ground. That of Scartaris,
especially, stood out like a sharp stone and began to turn imperceptibly
with the radiant orb.
My uncle turned with it.
At the middle of the day, when it was shortest, it came and gently
kissed the edge of the middle chimney.
'It is there! There it is!' shouted the professor. 'To the centre of the
globe!' he added in Danish.
I looked at Hans.
'Forut!'
66 he said calmly.
'Forward!' replied my uncle.
It was thirteen minutes past one.
17
The real journey began. Until now things had been more tiring than difficult;
but henceforth problems were literally going to spring forth under our
feet.
I had still not looked down at the fathomless pit into which I was going
to engulf myself. The moment had arrived. I could still either take part in
the venture or else refuse to try it. But I felt ashamed to turn back in the
hunter's presence. Hans accepted the adventure so calmly, with such indifference,
such unconcern at all danger, that I blushed at the idea of being
less brave than him. On my own, I would have launched into a whole series
of important arguments, but since the guide was there I remained silent.
My memory flew back towards my pretty Virland girl, and I approached the
middle chimney.
As mentioned already, it was a hundred feet across, or about three
hundred feet right round. I leant over an overhanging rock, and looked. My
hair stood on end. An impression of void took hold of my being. I felt my
centre of gravity moving through me and dizziness going to my head like a
heady brew. Nothing more intoxicating than this attraction of the abyss. I
 66 'Forut': 'forut' is Swedish for 'before, formerly'. 
was going to fall. A hand held me back. Hans's. Decidedly, I hadn't had
enough 'lessons in chasms' at the Frelsers Kirke in Copenhagen.
But however little I'd dared look down into the well, I had realised what
shape it was. Its walls, almost perpendicular, had many projections which
were certainly going to make them easier to climb down. But if there was
an adequate staircase, there was no banister. A rope attached at the mouth
would have provided sufficient support, but how to untie it when we got to
its end?
My uncle employed a very simple method to get round this difficulty. He
unrolled a rope as thick as a thumb and four hundred feet long. First he
dropped half of it down, then wound it round a block of lava which projected
outwards, and finally threw the other half into the chimney. Each of
us could then climb down while holding together the two halves of the rope,
which couldn't slip. Two hundred feet further on, nothing would be easier
than bringing it down by letting one end go and pulling on the other. We
would then be able to repeat this exercise ad infinitum.
'Now,' said my uncle, 'having finished these preparations, let's think
about the luggage. It will be split into three, and each of us will strap a
package to his back I refer only to the fragile objects.'
The bold professor clearly didn't include us in the last category.
'Hans will carry the tools and a third of the food; you, Axel, another
third of the food and the firearms; I will take the rest of it and the delicate
instruments.'
'But what about the clothing and this great pile of ropes and ladders,
who will take charge of them?'
'There is no need.'
'Why?'
'You will see.'
My uncle liked to employ strong-arm methods, without hesitating. On
his command, Hans tied the non-fragile objects into a single packet, which
was roped solidly together, and then quite simply dropped down into the
abyss.
I heard the lowing sound produced by the movements of the layers of
air. My uncle, leaning over the gulf, watched the descent of our luggage
with a satisfied air, and stood up again only after losing sight of it.
'Right. We are next.'
I ask any man of good faith if it was possible to listen to such words
without getting cold shivers.
The professor attached the package of instruments to his back; Hans
took the implements, myself the firearms. The descent began in the following
order: Hans, my uncle, myself. It proceeded in deep silence, broken
only by rock debris falling into the abyss.
I allowed myself to flow, so to speak, with one hand desperately holding
on to the double rope, and the other using my alpenstock to slow me down.
A single idea obsessed me: I was afraid of losing all means of support. This
rope seemed to me very fragile for bearing the weight of three people. I 
used it as little as possible, performing miracles of balance on the lava projections
that my foot tried to hold on to like a hand.
When one of these precarious steps happened to dislodge under Hans's
feet, he would say in his calm voice:
'Gif akt!'
'Careful!' repeated my uncle.
After half an hour we had reached the top of a boulder solidly attached
to the wall of the chimney.
Hans pulled one of the ends of the rope, and the other rose in the air.
Having gone round the rock at the top, it fell back, dragging down pieces of
rock and lava, a sort of rain or rather hail, full of danger.
Leaning over our narrow platform, I noticed that the bottom of the hole
could still not be seen.
The rope manoeuvre began again, and half an hour later we had got
two hundred feet deeper.
I don't know if, during such a descent, the most fanatical geologist
would have tried to study the nature of the form-ations surrounding him. As
for me, I hardly thought about them: I was not really bothered whether
they were Pliocene, Miocene, Eocene, Cretaceous, Jurassic, Triassic, Permian,
Carboniferous, Devonian, Silurian, or Primitive. But the professor undoubtedly
made observations or else took notes, for during one of our halts
he said:
'The further I go, the more confident I become. The arrangement of
these volcanic formations absolutely confirms Davy's theory. We are in the
middle of primordial ground, the ground where the chemical reaction occurred
of the metals burning on contact with the air and water. I absolutely
refuse to accept the theory of a heat in the centre. In any case we will see
for ourselves.'
Still the same conclusion. It goes without saying that I didn't bother to
discuss it. My silence was taken for agreement, and the descent began
again.
After three hours, I had still not caught a glimpse of the bottom of the
chimney. When I looked up I could see the mouth, which was getting quite
a lot smaller. Because of the small angle between the walls, they looked as
though they were coming together. It was slowly getting darker and darker.
We were still going down. It seemed to me that the rocks disturbed
from the walls were swallowed up with a duller reverberation and that they
ought to be reaching the bottom of the abyss more quickly.
As I had carefully noted the operations of the rope, I was able to calculate
the precise depth and time elapsed.
We'd used the rope fourteen times, taking half an hour each time. So
we'd spent seven hours, plus fourteen rest periods of fifteen minutes, or
three and a half hours. Ten and a half in total. Since we had left at one, it
had to be about eleven now.
As for the depth reached, the fourteen operations of the rope gave
2,800 feet.
At that moment Hans's voice was heard: 
'Halt!'
I stopped dead at the moment my feet were about to collide with my
uncle's head.
'We are there,' he said.
'Where?' I asked, slipping down beside him.
'At the bottom of the vertical chimney.'
'And there's no way out?'
'Yes there is, I can just see a sort of corridor at an angle towards the
right. We will have a look tomorrow. Let's eat, and then we can sleep.'
It was still not completely dark. We opened the food bag, ate, and lay
down, each doing his best to make a bed amongst the stone and lava debris.

Lying on my back, I opened my eyes and caught sight of a brilliant object
at the other end of the three-thousand-foot-long tube, converted into a
gigantic telescope.
It was a star, but not twinkling at all. According to my calculations it
was Beta of the Little Bear.
Then I fell into a deep sleep.
18
At eight in the morning, a ray of daylight came and woke us up. The
thousand facets of the lava on the walls picked it up on the way down and
scattered it everywhere like a shower of sparks.
These gleams were enough for us to be able to distinguish the surrounding
objects.
'Well, Axel, what do you say?' shouted my uncle, rubbing his hands together.
'Have you ever spent a more peaceful night in our house on Konigstrasse?
No noise of cartwheels, no cries from the market, no yelling boatmen!'

'It is admittedly very calm at the bottom of this well, but such quiet has
itself rather a frightening effect.'
'Come now. If you are frightened already, what will you be like later?
We have not gone a single inch into the bowels of the Earth!'
'What do you mean?'
'I mean that we have only reached ground level on the island! This long
vertical tube leading down from the crater of Snaefells stops at approximately
sea level.'
'Are you certain?'
'Absolutely. Have a look at the barometer.'
The mercury, after rising in the instrument as we descended, had indeed
stopped at thirty inches.
'You see. The pressure is still only one atmosphere, and I am looking
forward to the manometer replacing the barometer.'
The barometer was indeed going to become useless when the weight of
the air was greater than its pressure as calculated at sea level.
'But shouldn't we be afraid that the ever-increasing pressure will become
highly uncomfortable?' 
'No, we will descend slowly, and our lungs will get used to breathing a
denser atmosphere. Aeronauts eventually lack air when they climb up into
the highest layers although we ourselves may perhaps have too much. But
I prefer that. Let's not waste a moment. Where is the package that came
down the inside of the mountain before us?'
I remembered then that we had looked for it the evening before but not
found it. My uncle questioned Hans, who looked carefully with his hunter's
eyes, then replied:
'Der huppe!'
'Up there.'
The package was indeed hanging from a projecting rock a hundred feet
above our heads. The agile Icelander immediately climbed up like a cat and,
a few moments later, it had caught up with us.
'Now,' said my uncle, 'let's have breakfast but a breakfast like people
who perhaps have a long journey ahead of them.'
The dried meat and biscuit were washed down with a few mouthfuls of
water mixed with gin.
Once we had finished, my uncle pulled from his pocket a notebook designed
for observations. He examined each of the various instruments in
turn and wrote down the date:
Monday, 1 July67
Chronometer: 8.17 a.m.
Barometer: 29 /12
Thermometer: 6 C
Direction: ESE
The last observation referred to the dark corridor, as indicated by the
compass.
'Now, Axel,' cried the professor enthusiastically, 'we are going to
penetrate the globe's bowels proper. This is the precise moment when our
journey begins.'
Saying that, with one hand he took the Ruhmkorff lamp, which was
hanging round his neck. With the other he applied the electric current to
the filament of the lamp, and a brightish light chased the darkness from
the tunnel.
Hans carried the second lamp, which was also switched on. This ingenious
application of electricity allowed us to go for a long time in artificial
daylight, even through the most inflammable of gases.
'Let's get going!' said my uncle.
Each of us picked up his bundle. Hans took charge of pushing the
packet of ropes and clothing in front of him, and with me in third position
we entered the gallery.
Just as I plunged into the black passage, I raised my head and looked
through the long tube at the sky of Iceland, 'that I would never see
again'.
 67 Monday, 1 July: this should logically be 'Monday, 29 June'. 
During its last eruption in 1229, the lava had forced its way through
the tunnel. It had carpeted the inside with a thick, shiny coating: the
electric light was now reflected in it, becoming a hundred times brighter.
The only difficulty consisted of not sliding down the slope too quickly,
for it was at an angle of about 45  . Fortunately, worn-away parts and
blisters acted as steps, and all we had to do was let our packages slide,
held back by a long rope.
But what acted as steps under our feet became stalactites on certain
walls. The lava, porous in places, was covered with little round bulbs;
crystals of opaque quartz, decorated with clear drops of glass, hung from
the vaulted ceiling like chandeliers, and seemed to light up as we passed.
It was as if the spirits of the underground were lighting up their palace to
welcome their guests from the Earth.
'It's magnificent!' I shouted in spite of myself. 'What a sight, Uncle!
Look at the colours in the lava which go from reddish-brown to bright yellow
absolutely continuously. And these crystals that look like luminous
globes!'
'You're getting there, Axel! So you admire all that, my boy? You will
see lots more, I hope. Come on, off we go!'
He should have said 'off we slide', for we were able to simply let ourselves
go on these inclined slopes, without straining ourselves. It was
Virgil's facilis descensus Averni.
68 The compass, which I often consulted,
showed the direction as south-east with an unflinching precision. The lava
flow deviated to neither side. It had the inflexibility of a straight line.
Meanwhile it wasn't getting appreciably warmer. This confirmed
Davy's theories, and several times I looked at the thermometer with surprise.
Two hours after we had left, it still only indicated 10 , in other
words an increase of 4  . That made me think that our journey was more
horizontal than vertical. As for knowing the exact depth reached, nothing
was easier. The professor measured the precise vertical and horizontal
angles of our route but kept the results to himself.
At about eight in the evening, he gave the signal to stop. Hans immediately
sat down. The lamps were hung from convenient pieces of lava.
We were in a sort of cavern where there was no lack of air. On the contrary:
we felt a wind blowing. What was causing it? What movement in
the atmosphere did it arise from? I wasn't really interested in answering
the question at that moment. Hunger and tiredness made me unable to
think. A descent of seven hours without stopping produces a great depletion
of energy. I was exhausted, and had been very glad to hear the word
'Halt'. Hans spread out a few provisions on a block of lava and each of us
ate hungrily. One thing worried me, though: half our supply of water had
been used up. My uncle planned to replenish it at underwater springs, but
there hadn't been a single one so far. I couldn't help mentioning it to him.
'Are you surprised by the absence of streams?' he replied.
 68 'facilis descensus Averni': 'an easy descent into the Avernus [Hades]' [The
Aeneid, bk 6]. The Avernus was a lake in a crater near Naples, believed to be
the source of the River Styx. 
'Yes, and even worried. We have water left for only five days.'
'Don't worry, Axel, my reply is that we will find water, and more than
we want.'
'When?'
'When we have left the lava envelope. How do you think that springs
can get through these walls?'
'But the lava flow may continue to a great depth. And we don't seem
to have gone very far yet in the vertical direction.'
'What makes you say that?'
'Because if we had gone a long way into the interior of the Earth's
crust, the heat would be greater than it is.'
'According to your system. What does the thermometer say?'
'Hardly 15 , which is only 9  more than when we left.'
'And your conclusion?'
'I conclude as follows. From the most precise observations, we know
that the temperature increases by one degree for every hundred feet you
go into the interior of the globe. But local conditions can sometimes alter
that figure. Thus in Yakutsk in Siberia, it has been observed that the increase
is one degree for every thirty-six feet. The difference clearly depends
on the conductivity of the rock. One can also add that in the
neighbourhood of an extinct volcano, through the gneiss, the increase is
only one degree for every 125 feet. Let us therefore take this last hypothesis,
which is the most favourable, and let us calculate.'
'Calculate on, my boy.'
'It's child's play,' I said, jotting the figures down in my notebook. 'Nine
times 125 feet gives 1,125 feet deep.'
'So it does.'
'Well?'
'Well, according to my observations, we are now ten thousand feet below
sea level.'
'Are we really?'
'Yes or else figures are no longer figures!'
The professor's calculations were correct. We had gone six thousand
feet further than the greatest depths achieved by man, such as the mines
of Kitzbuhel in the Tyrol or those of Wuttemberg in Bohemia.69
The temperature, which should have been 81  at this spot, was barely
15  . It made you think.
19
At 6 a.m. the following day, Tuesday, 30 June, the journey began
again.
We were still following the lava gallery, truly a natural ramp, as gentle
as those inclined planes that still replace staircases in old houses. This
 69 Wuttemberg in Bohemia: Michel Verne describes the 'mines of Kitz-Bahl
(Tyrol) and of Wutenberg (Bohemia)' as being 1,400 m. deep ('Zigzags B travers
la science: sous terre', Figaro, 18 Aug. 1888. 
continued until 12.17, the precise moment when we caught up with Hans,
who had just stopped.
'Ah,' exclaimed my uncle, 'we have reached the end of the chimney.'
I looked around. We were in the middle of an intersection, with two
paths heading forward, both of them dark and narrow. Which one were
we to take? We had a problem.
But my uncle didn't want to appear to hesitate before either me or the
guide: he pointed to the eastern tunnel, and soon all three of us had
plunged into it.
In any case, any deliberation about the choice of path could have
gone on indefinitely, for no clue could possibly determine the choice of
one or the other we had to trust entirely to chance.
The slope of the new gallery was very gentle, and the cross-section
varied a great deal. Sometimes a succession of arches unfolded before us
like the counter-naves of a Gothic cath-edral. The artists of the Middle
Ages could easily have studied here all the forms of religious architecture
generated by the ogive. A mile further on, we had to bow our heads under
low semicircular arches in the Roman style, with thick pillars forming
part of the rock itself, bending under the spring of the vaults. At certain
places, these forms gave way to low substructures that looked like beavers'
work, and we crawled and slid through narrow intestines.
The heat stayed at a tolerable level. I couldn't help thinking about its
intensity when the lavas vomited by Snaefells had rushed through this
path, today so peaceful. I imagined the rivers of fire broken at the angles
in the tunnel and the build-up of superheated steam in this enclosed
space!
'Provided', I thought, 'that the old volcano doesn't decide to give in
again to a senile fantasy!'
I didn't mention these ideas to Uncle Lidenbrock: he wouldn't have
understood. His sole thought was to go forward. He walked, he slid, he
tumbled down even, with a degree of conviction that it was better after all
to admire.
At 6 p.m., following a relatively easy march, we had covered five
miles in a southerly direction, but scarcely a quarter of a mile in depth.
My uncle gave the signal to stop. We ate without talking very much,
and then went to sleep without thinking very much.
Our arrangements for the night were very simple: travelling-rugs,
which we rolled ourselves up in, were our sole bedding. We had no fear of
cold, nor of surprise visits. Those travellers who penetrate the middle of
the deserts of Africa or the heart of the forests of the New World are
forced to watch over each other during the hours of sleep. But here, absolute
solitude and complete safety. Savages or wild beasts: none of
these harmful races were to be feared.
In the morning we woke fresh and revitalised. We started off again.
We were following a lava route like the day before. Impossible to recognise
what sort of formations we were passing through. Instead of going
down into the bowels of the globe, the tunnel was becoming more and 
more horizontal. I even thought it was heading back up towards the surface
of the Earth. At about 10 a.m., the tendency became so clear, and
consequently so tiring, that I had to slow our progress.
'Well, Axel?' the professor said impatiently.
'Well, I'm totally exhausted.'
'What, after three hours of strolling along such an easy route!'
'Easy, perhaps, but most certainly tiring.'
'But all we have to do is descend!'
'Climb, with respect!'
'Climb?' said my uncle, shrugging his shoulders.
'Definitely. For the last half-hour, the gradient's been different, and
were we to follow it to the end, we'd certainly get back to the soil of Iceland.'

The professor shook his head like someone unwilling to be convinced.
I tried to pursue the conversation. He didn't reply, but just gave the signal
for departure. I saw clearly that his silence was nothing but concentrated
ill humour.
All the same I valiantly picked up my burden and hurried after Hans,
who was following my uncle. I didn't want to be left behind for I was tremendously
worried about losing sight of my companions. I trembled at
the thought of getting lost in the depths of the labyrinth.
In any case, if the ascending route was becoming more difficult, I consoled
myself by thinking that it was bringing me closer to the surface of
the Earth. It was a hope. Every step confirmed it, and I rejoiced at the
idea of seeing my little Grauben again.
At midday the walls of the tunnel changed appearance. I noticed this
from the dimming of the electric light reflecting from them. The covering
of lava was being replaced by bare rock. The massif was made up of layers
at an angle, often in fact completely perpendicular. We were in the
middle of the Transition Era, in full Silurian Period.70
'It's obvious,' I said to myself. 'During the Second Era of the Earth,
the sediment from the water formed these schists, these limestones,
these sandstones! We're turning our backs on the primary granite. We're
like people from Hamburg who take the Hanover road to go to Lubeck.'
I should have kept my remarks to myself. But my geologist's temperament
overcame my caution, and Uncle Lidenbrock overheard my exclamations.

'What is the matter then?'
'Look!' I replied, showing him the successive varieties of sandstones
and limestones and the first signs of shale formations.
'Well?'
'Here we are at the period when the first plants and animals appeared!'

'Do you really think so?'
'But look, examine, observe!'
 70 So called because the terrains of this period are very common in the parts
of Britain formerly inhabited by the Celtic tribe, the Silures. [JV] 
I made the professor shine his lamp on the walls of the tunnel. I expected
some exclamation from him. But he didn't say a word merely
continued on his way.
Had he understood me or not? Did he not want to admit, because of
his self-respect as an uncle and a scientist, that he had made a mistake in
choosing the eastern tunnel; or did he want to explore the passage to the
end? It was clear in any case that we had left behind the route taken by
the lava, and that this path couldn't lead to the source of Snaefells's heat.
However, I wondered whether I wasn't placing too much importance
on the change in the formation. Was I not deluding myself? Were we
really crossing the layers of rock superimposed on the granite foundation?
If I'm right, I thought, I'll surely find traces of primitive plants, and it
will be self-evident to anyone. Let's look.
I hadn't gone a hundred yards further before incontrovertible proof
appeared before my eyes. It was to be expected, for during the Silurian
Period there were more than fifteen hundred species of vegetables and
animals in the seas. My feet, used to the hard ground of the lava, were
suddenly treading on a dust composed of fragments of plants and shells.
On the walls could be clearly seen the outlines of seaweeds and clubmosses.71
Professor Lidenbrock could no longer entertain any doubt but
he closed his eyes, I imagine, and continued on his way at a steady pace.
This was obstinacy taken beyond all limit. I couldn't stand it any more.
I picked up a perfectly preserved shell, one that had belonged to an animal
more or less like the present-day woodlouse. Then I caught up with
my uncle and said to him:
'See!'
'Well,' he replied calmly, 'it is the shell of a crustacean of the extinct
order of trilobites. Nothing else.'
'But do you not conclude from that. . . ?'
'What you conclude yourself? Yes. Fine. We have left the granite stratum
behind, together with the route followed by the lava. It is possible
that I made a mistake; but I will only be certain of my error when I have
reached the end of the gallery.'
'You're right to follow such a course of action, Uncle, and I would support
it, if we weren't in greater and greater danger.'
'Of what?'
'Of the shortage of water.'
'Well, we will ration it, Axel.'
20
Rationing was indeed necessary. We didn't have enough water left for
more than three days, as I found out that evening at supper-time. Nor
could we have much hope of coming across an open spring in the ground
of the Transition Era a dismal perspective.
 71 the outlines of seaweeds and club-mosses: seaweeds and club-mosses occurred
in radically different environments, and at different times: is Verne here
deliberately mixing opposites? 
The whole of the following day, the tunnel lined up its endless arches
before us. We walked almost without a word. Hans's silence was catching.
The route was not climbing, at least not noticeably. Sometimes it even
seemed to be going down. But such a tendency, in any case very slight,
can't have reassured the professor, for the nature of the strata didn't
change, and the signs of the Transition Era became more and more obvious.

The electric lamp produced a wonderful sparkling on the schists, the
limestone, and the Old Red Sandstone of the walls. You might have
thought you were in a trench excavation in Devon, the county which gave
its name to this sort of formation. Magnificent marble specimens covered
the walls, some an agate grey with white veins standing out in various
places, others crimson or yellow with red spots. Further on were samples
of griotte marble in dark colours, but with limestone providing bright
highlights.
Most of the marble displayed the outlines of primitive animals. Since
the day before, creation had made clear signs of progress. Instead of rudimentary
trilobites, I spotted evidence of a more perfect order: amongst
others, ganoid fish and those saurians where the palaeontologist's eye
has discerned the first reptile forms. The Devonian seas were inhabited by
a large number of animals of this latter species, and deposited thousands
and thousands of them on to the newly formed rocks.
It became plain that we were moving back up the scale of animal life,
of which man forms the peak. But Professor Lidenbrock didn't seem to be
paying attention to this.
He was hoping for one of two things: either that a vertical shaft would
somehow open up beneath his feet and thus allow him to descend again;
or that he would be blocked by some obstacle. But evening came without
either hope being fulfilled.
On the Friday, after a night when I began to be tortured by thirst, our
little team plunged again into the tunnel's meanders.
After ten hours' march, I noticed that the reflection of our lamps on
the surfaces was decreasing to a remarkable degree. The marble, the
schist, the limestone, and the sandstone on the walls were giving way to
a dark covering not giving off any light. At a moment when the tunnel
was especially narrow, I leaned on the left-hand wall.
When I withdrew my hand, it was completely black. I looked closer.
We were in the middle of a coal deposit.
'A coal mine!' I exclaimed.
'A mine without miners.'
'Who knows?'
'I know,' replied the professor firmly. 'And I am certain that this tunnel
cutting through the coal seams was not made by human hands. But I
do not really care whether it is Nature's work or not. The time for supper
has arrived. Let us therefore sup.' 
Hans prepared some food. I hardly ate anything, but drank the few
drops of water that made up my ration. The guide's half-full flask was all
that remained for three men.
After the meal, my two companions stretched out on their blankets
and found a remedy to their tiredness in sleep. I myself couldn't doze off,
and merely counted the hours till morning.
On Saturday we left at six. Twenty minutes later, we arrived at a huge
excavation. I realised then that human hands could not have hollowed out
this coal-pit, for in that case the arches would necessarily have been underpinned.
Here they literally held up only by some miracle of equilibrium.
This cavernous space was 100 feet wide by 150 feet high. The earth
had been violently pushed aside by some underground upheaval. The
solid ground, subjected to some huge force, had split wide open, leaving
this spacious void, never before penetrated by the inhabitants of the
Earth.
On these dark walls was written the whole history of the coal period,
and a geologist could easily read its successive stages. The beds of coal
were separated by strata of sandstone or compacted clay, as if crushed
under the uppermost layers.
During this age of the world which preceded the Secondary Era, the
Earth became covered in immense vegetation due to the tropical heat
combined with a permanent humidity. An atmosphere of steam enveloped
all parts of the globe, shielding it from the sun's rays.
Hence the conclusion that the high temperatures could not have come
from that new source of heat. Perhaps the sun was not ready to play its
brilliant role. But in any case 'climates' did not yet exist, and a torrid heat
spread across the entire surface of the globe, the same at the poles as at
the equator. Where did it come from? The centre of the globe.
Despite Professor Lidenbrock's theories, a violent fire smouldered in
the bowels of the spheroid. Its effects were felt even in the outermost
layers of the Earth's crust. The plants, shielded from the life-giving radiation
of the sun, did not produce flowers or scent, but their roots drew vigorous
life from the burning soils of the first days.
There were few trees, only herbaceous plants, huge grassy areas,
ferns, club-mosses, and sigillarias72 and asterophyllites, rare families
whose species were then numbered in thousands.
It was this exuberant vegetation which produced the coal. The Earth's
crust, still elastic, followed the movements of the liquid mass it encased.
Hence a large amount of cracking and subsiding. The plants, dragged under
water, gradually built up considerable piles of matter.
Next came the action of Nature's chemistry: on the bottom of the
seas, the vegetable masses became peat. Then, thanks to the effect of
the gases, and in the heat from the fermentation, they underwent a complete
mineralisation.
 72 Sigillarias: fossil trees, leaving impressions in coal deposits; Asterophyllites:
fossil plants, with leaves arranged in whorls, found in coal formations. 
In this way were formed the huge layers of coal. These, however, will
be used up by over-consumption in less than three centuries, if the industrialised
nations do not take care.
These ideas passed through my mind while I looked at the coal riches
accumulated in this section of the Earth's mass. Such riches will probably
never be opened up. The exploitation of these far-away mines would require
too much effort. What would be the point in any case, when coal is
spread over the Earth's surface, so to speak, in a large number of countries?
So these untouched strata I saw will probably remain exactly the
same when the Earth's last hour sounds.
We carried on walking meanwhile, and I was the only one of the three
companions to forget how long the route was, deeply engrossed as I was
in my geological considerations. The temperature remained virtually the
same as during our passage through the lavas and the schists. On the
other hand, my nose was distressed by a very pronounced smell of hydrocarbon.
I immediately realised that in this tunnel there was a significant
amount of the dangerous gas which miners call firedamp, and whose explosions
have so often caused terrible disasters.73
Fortunately, our lighting came from the ingenious Ruhmkorff lamps.
If, by misfortune, we had carelessly explored this tunnel holding torches,
an awful explosion would have terminated the journey by destroying
those carrying it out.
Our excursion through the coal lasted until evening. My uncle could
hardly control the impatience that the horizontality of the route was generating
in him. The darkness, impenetrable at more than twenty yards,
prevented any estimation of how far the tunnel ran. I was beginning to
believe that it must be endless, when suddenly and without warning, at 6
p.m., a wall appeared right in front of us. There was no way through,
whether to the left or to the right, above or below. We had reached the
end of a cul-de-sac.
'Well so much the better!' bellowed my uncle. 'At least I know what
I'm up against. We are not on Saknussemm's route, and our only choice
is to turn round and go back. Let's rest for a night, and within three days
we will be back at the point where the two tunnels fork.'
'Yes, if we are strong enough.'
'And why should we not be?'
'Because tomorrow there will be no water left at all!'
'And no courage left either?' asked the professor, looking at me
sternly.
I did not dare reply.
21
The following day, we left very early. Speed was of the essence. We
were five days' march from the parting of the ways.
I will not dwell on our suffering during the return. My uncle bore it
with the anger of a man who knows that he is less strong; Hans with the
 73 smell . . . disasters: fire-damp has no smell: hence the danger! 
resignation of his peaceful nature; myself, I must admit, with complaints
and despair, for I was unable to just grin and bear it.
As I foresaw, the water ran out completely at the end of our first day's
march. Our supplies of liquid were limited to gin, but this diabolical spirit
burned your throat, and I couldn't even bear to look at it. I found the heat
stifling. Tiredness prevented me from moving. More than once, I almost
fell down in a faint. On such occasions a halt was called, and my uncle or
the Icelander comforted me as best they could. But I could see that the
professor was already reacting with difficulty against the extreme fatigue
and the torment produced by the lack of water.
Finally on Tuesday, 7 July, dragging ourselves along on our hands and
knees, half-dead, we reached the point where the two tunnels split. I lay
there, a lifeless mass, stretched out on the lava floor. It was ten in the
morning.
Hans and my uncle, leaning back against the walls, tried to nibble a
few crumbs of biscuit. Long groans escaped from my swollen lips. I fell
into a deep faint.
After a time, my uncle drew near and lifted me up in his arms.
'Poor child,' he murmured in tones of real pity.
I was touched by these words, not being used to such tenderness
from the tough professor. I seized hold of his trembling hands in mine. He
allowed me to do this, while looking at me. His eyes were damp.
I then saw him take the flask hanging at his side. To my amazement,
he put it to my lips:
'Drink.'
Had I heard properly? Had my uncle gone mad? I looked at him with a
wild expression. I couldn't take in what he said.
'Drink,' he repeated.
And tilting the flask, he emptied it between my lips.
Oh infinite ecstasy! A mouthful of water came and wetted my fiery lips
and tongue, only one, but it was enough to bring back the life that was
tiptoeing away from me.
I thanked my uncle by putting my hands together.
'Yes, one mouthful of water. The last, do you hear? The very last! I
carefully kept it at the bottom of my flask. Twenty times, a hundred
times, I had to resist a terrible desire to drink it. But no, Axel, I was
keeping it for you.'
'Uncle!' I whispered as large tears formed in my eyes.
'Yes, poor child, I knew that when you arrived at this junction, you
would drop down half-dead, and I kept my last drops of water to bring
you back to life.'
'Thank you, thank you!'
However little my thirst was quenched, I had nevertheless got back
some strength. The muscles in my throat, contracted until this point, now
relaxed, and the burning in my lips diminished. I could speak again:
'Look, we now have only one course of action: since we have no water,
we must retrace our path.' 
While I spoke, my uncle avoided looking at me. He hung his head, and
his eyes avoided mine.
'We have to turn round, and follow the path back to Snaefells. May
God give us the strength to climb back up to the peak of the crater!'
'Go back!' said my uncle, as if replying to himself rather than to me.
'Yes, go back, without wasting a moment.'
There came a long silence.
'So as a consequence, Axel,' said the professor in a strange tone,
'those few drops of water have not given you back your courage and energy?'

'Courage!'
'I see you are as overcome as before, giving voice to words of despair!'

What sort of man was I dealing with, and what plans was his fearless
spirit still hatching?
'What, you don't want to. . . ?'
'. . . give up the expedition, at a moment when all the signs show it
can succeed? Never!'
'So we must prepare to die?'
'No, Axel, no! Go if you want. I do not wish your death! Hans will go
with you. Leave me alone!'
'Abandon you?'
'Leave me, I tell you! I began this journey; I will carry it out to the
bitter end, or else not come back at all. Off you go, Axel. Go!'
My uncle spoke very agitatedly. His voice, tender for a moment, had
now become hard and threatening. He was struggling with a sombre energy
against the impossible! I did not want to abandon him at the bottom
of this chasm; but, from another point of view, my instinct for selfpreservation
urged me to flee.
The guide followed this scene with his usual indifference. Yet he understood
what was happening between his two companions. Our gestures
were enough to show the different ways that each of us wanted to drag
the other. But Hans did not appear to be especially interested in this
question where his life was at stake: he seemed ready to leave if the signal
was given, ready to remain at the least wish of his master.
What I would have given at that moment to be able to speak to him!
My words, my complaints, my tone would have won his cold nature over.
These dangers that the guide did not seem to suspect I would have
made him understand them in the most literal way. The two of us together
might perhaps have convinced the stubborn professor. If need be,
we could have forced him to return to the heights of Snaefells!
I went over to Hans. I put my hand on his. He did not move. I pointed
at the route up to the crater. He still remained motionless. My gasping
face showed all my suffering. The Icelander gently shook his head, and,
calmly indicating my uncle:
'Master,' he said in Icelandic. 
'No, you fool! He's not the master of your life! We must flee, we must
drag him with us! Do you hear, do you understand?'
I seized Hans by the arm, trying to make him get up. I was wrestling
with him. My uncle intervened.
'Calm yourself, Axel. You will not get anything out of this impassive
servant. So hear what I have to offer.'
I crossed my arms, looking squarely at my uncle.
'Only the lack of water puts an obstacle to the achievement of my
aims. In that eastern tunnel, made of lavas, schists, and coals, we did not
find a single liquid molecule. We may possibly be more fortunate in the
western tunnel.'
I shook my head with a look of utter disbelief.74
'Hear me out,' continued the professor in a louder voice. 'While you
were lying there without moving, I went to reconnoitre the shape of the
tunnel. It forces its way directly into the bowels of the Earth and will lead
us, in a few hours, to the granite rock-formations. There we should meet
abundant springs. The nature of the rock implies this, and intuition and
logic combine to support my conviction. Now here is what I have to offer
you. When Columbus asked his crews for three more days to reach the
new lands, his crews, ill and terror-stricken, nevertheless granted his request,
and he discovered a new world. I, the Columbus of these underground
regions, am asking for only one more day. If at the end of that
time I have not encountered the water we need, I swear to you that we
will return to the surface of the Earth.'
In spite of my irritation, I was touched by these words and by the way
my uncle had to force himself to speak in such a way.
'All right!' I cried. 'Let it be as you wish, and may God reward your
superhuman energy. You have only a few hours left in which to tempt
fate. Let us go!'
22
We set off again, this time down the other tunnel. Hans led the way as
usual. We hadn't gone further than a hundred yards, when the professor,
shining his lamp along the walls, bellowed:
'These are Primitive formations! We're on the right route, come on,
come on!'
When the Earth slowly cooled during the first days of the world, the
decrease in volume produced disruptions, breakages, shrinkages, and
cracks in the crust. Our present corridor was a fissure of this sort, through
which the eruption of the li-quid granite had formerly poured out. Its
thousand paths formed an impossible maze through the primeval ground.
As we went further down, the succession of strata making up the
Primitive system appeared more and more clearly. Geological science
 74 I shook. . . head.: these three-and-a-half paragraphs are new in the 1867
edition. In their place, the 1864 edition read: ' "Hans," said my uncle, shaking
his head. Then he examined the weapon attentively. "Axel," he said to me in a
serious tone, "this knife. . ." ' 
considers the Primitive system as the base of the mineral crust, and has
analysed it into three different strata: schists, gneisses, and mica-schists
resting on that immovable rock called granite.
Never had mineralogists been in such perfect circumstances for studying
nature in situ. The drill, a brutal and unintelligent machine, could not
bring the internal texture back to the surface of the globe but we were
going to examine it with our eyes, touch it with our hands.
Through the layer of schists, coloured in wonderful green shades,
there meandered metallic seams of copper and manganese, with traces of
platinum and gold. I dreamed when I saw these riches hidden away in the
bowels of the Earth, which human greed would never enjoy! These treasures
were so deeply buried by the upheavals of the first days, that neither
pick nor drill will ever be able to tear them from their tomb.
After the schists came the gneisses, of stratiform structure, remarkable
for their regularity and their parallel folia;
75 then the mica-schists
laid out in huge laminae, standing out because of their scintillations in the
white mica.
The light from the lamps, reflected by the tiny facets of the mass of
rock, shone its fiery flashes at all angles, and I imagined I was travelling
through a hollowed-out diamond with the rays disintegrating into a thousand
dazzling lights.
At about six, this festival of light reduced noticeably and then almost
stopped. The rock-faces took on a crystallised tint, but of a dark shade.
The mica mixed more intimately with feldspar and quartz, to form that
most rock-like of all rocks, the stone that is the hardest of all, the one
that holds up the four storeys of the globe's formation without being
crushed. We were walled up in a huge granite prison.
It was eight in the evening. There was still no water. I was in terrible
pain. My uncle walked ahead. He wouldn't stop. He kept turning his head
to one side in order to detect murmurs from any spring. But none came!
Meanwhile my legs refused to carry me any further. I resisted the agony
so that my uncle would not have to call a halt. It would have been a
blow of despair for him, as the day was coming to an end, the last one he
had.
Finally my strength left me. I uttered a cry and fell down.
'Help! I'm dying!'
My uncle came back. He examined me, crossing his arms. Then the
leaden words came from his lips:
'It is finished!'
A terrifying gesture of anger struck my eyes one last time, and I
closed them.
When I opened my eyes again, I saw my two companions motionless,
rolled up in their blankets. Were they asleep? For my part, I could not find
a moment's repose. My distress was too great, and above all the thought
that my sufferings were not going to find any relief. My uncle's last words
 75 folia: (Latin: 'leaves') laminae or thin layers. 
rang out in my ears: 'It is finished!' since, in such a weak state, we
couldn't even think about reaching the surface of the Earth again.
There were more than four miles of Earth's crust! This mass seemed
to be leaning with all its weight on my shoulders. I felt crushed, and I
wore myself out with violent struggles to turn over on my granite bed.
A few hours went by. A deep silence hung around us, the silence of
the grave. Nothing reached us through these walls, each at least five
miles thick.
Nevertheless, in the middle of my lethargy, I thought I heard a noise.
It was dark in the tunnel. I looked more carefully and thought I could see
the Icelander slipping away with the lamp in his hand.
Why was he going? Was Hans leaving us to our fate? My uncle was
asleep. I tried to cry out. My voice could not find a way through my driedup
lips. It was now very dark, and the last sounds had just died away.
'Hans is leaving us!' I cried. 'Hans, Hans!'
These words, I shouted them inside myself. They went no further. But
after the first moment of terror, I felt ashamed of my suspicion of a man
whose conduct had been beyond reproach until now. His departure could
not be running away. Instead of going up the tunnel, he was heading
down. Evil intentions would have taken him towards the top, not the bottom.
This argument calmed me down a little, and I came back to another
order of ideas. Only a serious reason could have torn Hans, that peaceful
man, from his rest. Was he in search of something? Had he heard some
murmur during the silent night, one which had not reached me?
23
For an hour, my delirious brain ran through all the conceivable reasons
that could have made the calm hunter act in this way. The most absurd
ideas intersected in my head. I thought I was about to go mad!
But finally the sound of feet could be heard in the depths of the
chasm. Hans was coming back up. An indefinite light began to slide along
the rock-face, then flowed through the mouth of the corridor. Hans reappeared.

He went up to my uncle, put a hand on his shoulder, and gently woke
him. My uncle sat up.
'What is it?'
'Vatten,' replied the hunter.
It must be the case that, under the inspiration of extreme suffering,
everyone becomes multilingual. I did not know a single word of Danish,
and yet I instinctively understood our guide's utterance.
'Water, water!' I shouted, clapping my hands and gesticulating like a
lunatic.
'Water!' repeated my uncle. 'Hvar?'
'Nedat,' replied Hans.
Where? Below! I could understand everything. I had seized hold of the
hunter's hands, and was holding them tight, while he looked calmly at
me. 
The preparations for departure didn't take long, and soon we were
moving down a corridor with a gradient of one in three.
An hour later, we had covered about a mile and a quarter and gone
down about two thousand feet.
At that moment, I distinctly heard an unusual sound running along the
side-walls of the granite rock-face, a sort of muffled rumbling like distant
thunder. During the next half-hour of walking, not meeting the promised
spring, I felt anxiety taking hold of me again; but then my uncle told me
where the noise was coming from.
'Hans was not wrong. What you hear is the roaring of fast-flowing water.'

'A stream?'
'There can be no doubt about it. An underground river is flowing
around us!'
We walked faster, overstimulated by hope. I forgot about my tiredness.
The sound of babbling water was already refreshing me. It was increasing
noticeably. The water, having for a long time remained over our
heads, was now running behind the left-hand rock-face roaring and
splashing. I frequently touched the rock with my hand, hoping to find
traces of condensation or water oozing through. But in vain.
Another half-hour went by. Another mile and a quarter was covered.
It became clear at this point that, while he had been away, the hunter
hadn't been able to continue his search any further. Guided by an instinct
peculiar to mountain men, to water-diviners, he had 'felt' the presence of
a stream through the rock, but had certainly not seen the precious liquid;
and he had not drunk any.
Soon it became obvious that, if we continued walking, we would be
moving away from the current, whose murmuring was now tending to diminish.

We turned back. Hans stopped at the precise point where the stream
seemed to be the closest.
I sat near the rock-wall, while the waters ran with great violence only
two feet away from me. But a granite wall stood between us.
Without thinking, without wondering whether some way didn't exist of
getting to this water, I gave in to an immediate feeling of despair.
Hans looked at me, and I thought I could see a smile playing on his
lips.
He rose and picked up the lamp. I followed. He went up to the rockface.
I watched him. He put his ear to the dry stone, and slowly moved it
around, listening with great concentration. I understood that he was looking
for the precise point where the noise from the stream was loudest. He
located this spot in the left-hand wall, three feet above the ground.
I was highly excited. I didn't dare guess what the hunter planned to
do. But I had to understand, and applaud, and embrace him passionately,
when I saw him lift up the pickaxe to attack the very rock.
'Saved!' I cried out. 
'Yes,' repeated my uncle in a frenzy. 'Hans is right. Oh the excellent
hunter! We would never have thought of that!'
I cannot disagree. Such a solution, however simple, would not have
entered our minds. Nothing could be more dangerous than striking a blow
with a pick into the structure of the globe. What if a landslide happened
and crushed us to death? What if the water, bursting through the rock,
drowned us? These fears were far from imaginary; but at such a moment
the danger of landslide or flood couldn't stop us. Our thirst was so strong
that to quench it we would have dug into the ocean bed itself.
Hans set to work, a task which neither my uncle nor I could have
completed. Our hands would have been so impatient that the rock would
have flown into pieces under our hurried blows. The guide, in contrast,
was calm and moderate, slowly chipping away at the rock with a long series
of little blows, creating an opening six inches wide. I heard the noise
of the stream increase, and I could already feel the life-giving water
spurting on my lips.
Soon the pick had gone two feet into the granite wall. The work had
lasted over an hour. I was writhing with impatience. My uncle wanted to
bring in the big guns. I had difficulty holding him back, and he was already
seizing his pickaxe, when suddenly a whistling noise was heard. A
jet of water shot out of the rock and hit the opposite face.
Hans, almost knocked down by the blow, could not hold back a cry of
pain. I understood why when I thrust my hand into the liquid jet, and in
turn uttered a wild exclamation. The spring was boiling.
'Water at 100  !' I shouted.
'It will soon cool down,' replied my uncle.
The corridor filled with steam, while a brook formed, and headed off
into the underground meanders. Soon we were drinking our first mouthfuls.

Oh, what ecstasy! What indescribable gratification! What was this water?
Where did it come from? I didn't care. It was water and, although still
hot, gave back to our hearts the life that was escaping from them. I drank
without stopping, without even tasting.
It was only after a minute of delight that I shouted:
'But it's full of iron!'
'Excellent for the stomach', replied my uncle, 'and full of minerals! Our
journey is as good as a trip to Spa or Toeplitz!'76
'Oh, how satisfying it is!'
'I am not surprised, water from five miles below ground. It tastes of
ink, which is not unpleasant. A vital commodity Hans has given us! I propose
therefore to call this brook after the person who was our salvation.'
'Agreed!'
The name 'Hans-Bach'77 was decided on the spot.
Hans did not become any the prouder because of this. Having drunk in
moderation, he sat back in a corner with his usual calm.
 76 Spa: in Belgium; TEplitz: German name for Toplita in modern Romania.
77 Bach: German for 'brook'. 
'Now,' I said, 'we mustn't let the water be lost.'
'Why bother? I do not imagine this source will ever dry up.'
'It makes no difference. Let's fill the water bottle and flasks, and then
try to block up the hole.'
My advice was followed. Using granite chips and coarse cloth, Hans
tried to block the gash made in the wall. It was not easy. Our hands got
scalded to no avail; there was too much pressure, and our attempts produced
no result.
'It's obvious', I said, 'that the water-bearing beds are at too great a
height, to judge from the strength of the jet.'
'There can be no doubt about it. If this water column is thirty-two
thousand feet high, it will be at a pressure of a thousand atmospheres.
But I have an idea.'
'What is it?'
'Why are we trying so hard to block the hole?'
'But, because. . . '
I would have been hard put to find a reason.
'When our flasks are empty, would we be certain to be able to fill
them again?'
'Clearly not.'
'Well then, we will let the water flow. It will work its way down naturally,
and guide those who drink from it on the way!'
'Good idea! With this stream as companion, there is no reason for our
projects not to succeed.'
'You are getting there, my boy,' said the professor, laughing.
'I'm doing better than that, I'm there already.'
'Not so quick! Let's begin by taking a few hours' rest.'
I had in truth forgotten that it was night-time. The chronometer soon
confirmed the fact. Shortly afterwards, each of us, having eaten and
drunk his fill, fell into a deep sleep.
24
The following day, we had already forgotten our difficulties. I was
amazed at first not to feel thirsty, and wondered why. The stream flowing
and gurgling at my feet gave me the answer.
We ate and drank from the excellent ferrous water. I felt like a new
man, determined to go a long way. Why should a man as convinced as
my uncle not succeed, with a hard-working guide like Hans and a committed
nephew like myself? These were the wonderful ideas which slid into
my brain. Had someone suggested going back up to the top of Snaefells, I
would have indignantly refused.
But fortunately the only item on the agenda was descending.
'Let's go!' I shouted, waking with my enthusiastic cries the old echoes
of the globe.
We started off again at 8 a.m. on Thursday. The granite corridor,
twisting and turning in sinuous paths, produced un-expected corners, taking
on the complexity of a maze; but, overall, its general direction was 
still towards the south-east. My uncle continually consulted his compass
with the greatest care, so as to be able to note the ground covered.
The gallery proceeded almost horizontally, with a gradient of one in
thirty-five at the very most. The stream followed unhurriedly at our feet,
murmuring. I compared it to some familiar spirit guiding us down into the
Earth, and I caressed the warm water-nymph whose song accompanied
our steps. When I was in a good mood, my mind often took a mythological
turn.
As for my uncle, he was cursing the horizontality of the route, as 'the
man of the perpendiculars'.78 His route was being indefinitely extended
and instead of 'sliding down the Earth's radius', as he put it, he was almost
going off at a tangent. But we had no choice, and as long as we
were getting nearer the centre, no matter how slowly, there was no reason
to complain.
In any case from time to time the slopes got steeper: the waternymph
would start tumbling down and moaning, and we would go down
deeper with her.
In sum, during that day and the following one, we covered a great
deal of ground horizontally, but relatively little vertically.
On Friday evening, 10 July, according to our estimates we were about
seventy miles south-east of Reykjavik and at a depth of just over six
miles.
Under our feet at this point opened a rather frightening shaft. My uncle
couldn't resist clapping his hands when he calculated the steepness of
the slope.
'It will take us a very long way,' he exclaimed, 'and easily, for the projections
of the rock form a veritable staircase.'
The ropes were placed in position by Hans in such a way as to prevent
all accidents. The descent began. I do not dare call it a perilous descent
because I was already familiar with this sort of operation.
The shaft was a narrow slit cut into the mass of the rock, of the sort
called 'faults'. It has clearly been produced during the contraction of the
Earth's very structure, at the period when it was cooling down. If it had
formerly served as a way through for the eruptive matters vomited by
Snaefells, I couldn't explain to myself how it was that these materials had
left no trace. We were going down a sort of spiral staircase that you'd
have said was made by human hands.
Every quarter of an hour we were forced to stop and take a rest to allow
our knees to recover. We invariably sat down on some projection with
our legs dangling over it; we ate while chatting; and we drank at the
brook.
It goes without saying that the Hans-Bach had become a waterfall in
this fault and had lost much of its volume, but it was still more than sufficient
to quench our thirst. In any case, when the slope became less
steep, it would soon have to adopt its more peaceful course again. At the
 78 'the man of the perpendiculars': Hetzel referred to Verne's 'sense of the
perpendicular' meaning his ability to extrapolate from fact to fiction. 
present point it reminded me of my worthy uncle, with his fits of impatience
and anger, whilst, when following the gentler slopes, it was like the
Icelandic hunter's calm.
On 11 and 12 July we worked our way round the spirals of the fault,
penetrating five miles further into the Earth's crust, which made nearly
twelve miles below sea level. But on the 13th, at about midday, the fault
took on a much gentler slope of about 45  , heading towards the southeast.

The path then became quite easy, and very boring. It would have
been hard for it to have been anything else. There was no way that the
journey could be varied by changes in the countryside.
Finally, on Wednesday the 15th we were seventeen miles below
ground and about 120 miles from Snaefells. Although we were a little
tired, our health was still in a reassuring state and the portable medical
kit had not yet been used.
Every hour my uncle noted the measurements of the compass, the
chronometer, the manometer, and the thermometer: the same notes that
he published later in his scientific account of the journey. In this way he
could easily deduce what our position was. When he told me that we'd
done this horizontal distance of 120 miles, I couldn't hold back an exclamation.

'What's the matter?' he asked.
'Nothing, I was just thinking.'
'Thinking what, my boy?'
'That if our calculations are correct, we are no longer under Iceland.'
'Do you think so?'
'It is easy to check.'
I used my compasses to measure on the map.
'I was right,' I said. 'We have gone right past Portland Point and these
120 miles towards the south-east mean that we are now in the open sea.'
'Under the open sea,' said my uncle, rubbing his hands.
'So,' I exclaimed, 'the ocean stretches above our heads!'
'Well, Axel, perfectly normal. At Newcastle, are there not coal mines
which extend a great distance under the waves?'
The professor might find the situation perfectly normal, but the
thought of walking under the great weight of the waters wouldn't stop
worrying me. And yet, whether the plains and mountains of Iceland were
suspended over our heads, or the waves of the Atlantic, made very little
difference in the end, provided that the granite structure remained solid.
In any case, I quickly got used to the idea, for the corridor which was
sometimes straight, sometimes winding, as capricious in its slopes as in
its detours, but running regularly towards the south-east and working its
way constantly down was quickly leading us to great depths.
Four days later, on the evening of Saturday, 18 July, we arrived at a
sort of grotto, of considerable size. My uncle gave Hans his three weekly
rix-dollars; and it was decided that the following day would be a day of
rest. 
25
Accordingly I woke up on the Sunday morning without the normal
worry about leaving immediately and, although we were amongst the
deepest chasms, this was all the same very pleasant. In any case we had
got used to our troglodytic existence. I hardly thought about the sun, the
stars, the moon, the trees, the houses, the towns all the superfluous aspects
of earthly life which terrestrial beings consider a necessity. Since we
were fossils, we didn't care a fig about such useless marvels.
The grotto formed a huge hall. Over its granite floor gently flowed the
faithful stream. At such a distance from its source, its water was only the
same temperature as the air, and we could drink it without difficulty.
After breakfast the professor wanted to spend a few hours putting his
daily notes into order.
'First of all,' he said, 'I am going to make a few calculations in order to
find out exactly what our position is. When we get back, I want to be able
to draw a map of our journey: a sort of vertical section of the globe giving
the profile of the expedition.'
'That'll be fascinating, Uncle, but will your observations be sufficiently
precise?'
'Yes, I have carefully noted down the angles and the gradients. I am
sure I have not made any mistakes. Let us first see where we are: take
the compass and note the direction it indicates.'
I considered the instrument and, after a careful examination, replied:
'East-a-quarter-south-east.'79
'Good,' said the professor, noting down the observation and making a
few quick calculations. 'I conclude that we have covered 210 miles from
the point where we started.'
'So we're travelling underneath the Atlantic?'
'Correct.'
'And at this moment a storm is perhaps raging up there, with ships
being shaken about above our heads by waves and hurricanes?'
'It is possible.'
'And the whales are coming to knock their tails on the roof of our
prison?'
'Don't worry, Axel, they will not do it any harm. But let's get back to
our calculations. We are 210 miles from the base of Snaefells in a southeasterly
direction, and, according to my previous notes, I estimate the
depth reached to be forty miles.'
'Forty miles?' I shouted.
'In all probability.'
'But that's the extreme limit that science has ascribed to the thickness
of the Earth's crust.'
'I will not contradict you.'
'And here, according to the law of increasing temperature, there
should be a temperature of over 1,500  .'
 79 east-a-quarter-southeast: 101 E in absolute bearing. 
'"Should be", my boy.'
'And all this granite couldn't remain in a solid state and would be completely
melted.'
'You can see that this is not the case and that, as usual, the facts are
able to contradict the theories.'
'I am forced to agree, but it still astonishes me.'
'What temperature does the thermometer indicate?'
'27.6  .'
'The scientists are only out, therefore, by 1,474.4 . So the proportional
increase in temperature is an error. So Sir Humphry Davy was
right. So I was not wrong to listen to him. What have you to say to that?'
'Nothing.'
In fact, I would have had quite a few things to say. I didn't accept
Davy's theories at all: I still believed in the heat in the centre, although I
could not feel any of its effects. To tell the truth, I preferred to think that
this vent was the chimney of an extinct volcano: one that the lava had
covered over with a coating that was refractory and so did not allow the
temperature to spread through its walls.
But without stopping to seek new arguments, I merely accepted the
situation as it was.
'Uncle,' I tried again, 'I believe that all your calculations are accurate,
but allow me to draw a logical conclusion from them.'
'Go on, my boy, feel free.'
'At the point where we are now, on the same latitude as Iceland, the
radius of the Earth is about 3,935 miles?'
'Three thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.'
'Let's say four thousand as a round figure. Out of a journey of four
thousand miles we've done forty?'
'As you say.'
'And this has been achieved at the expense of 210 miles in a diagonal
direction?'
'Perfectly.'
'In about twenty days?'
'In twenty days.'
'Now, forty miles is a hundredth of the radius of the Earth. If we continue
in this way we will therefore take two thousand days, or nearly five
and a half years, to get down.'
The professor did not reply.
'And that's not counting the fact that, if the vertical journey of forty
miles has been at the expense of a horizontal one of 210, that will make
twenty thousand miles towards the south-east, and we will have come out
through a point on the circumference long before we reach the centre.'
'The devil take your calculations!' cried my uncle with an angry gesture.
'The devil take your hypotheses. What do they rest on? Who can tell
you that this corridor does not go straight to our goal? In any case, I have
a precedent on my side. What I am doing here, someone else has already
done, and where he succeeded I will also succeed.' 
'I hope so. But finally, I have the right. . . '
'You have the right to keep quiet, Axel, when you attempt to reason in
that way.'
I could see clearly that the terrible professor was threatening to reappear
under the skin of the uncle, and so I considered myself duly warned.
'Now,' he said, 'consult the manometer: what does it indicate?'
'A considerable pressure.'
'Good. You can see that by going down gradually, by slowly getting
used to the density of the atmosphere, we have not had any problems at
all.'
'None at all, apart from a few earaches.'
'That's nothing, and you can get rid of the pain by putting the external
air in rapid communication with the air contained in your lungs.'
'Fine,' I replied, having decided not to upset my uncle any more.
'There is even a real pleasure in being plunged into this denser atmosphere.
Have you noticed how intensely the sound is propagated?'
'Indeed; a deaf man would end up hearing perfectly.'
'But this density will undoubtedly increase?'
'Yes, following a law which has not been completely determined. It is
true that the force of gravity will decrease in proportion to our descent.
You know that it is at the surface itself of the Earth that its action is most
strongly felt, and that objects no longer have any weight at the centre of
the globe.'
'I know, but tell me, will this air not finish up having the density of
water?'
'Probably, at a pressure of 710 atmospheres.'
'And further down?'
'Further down this density will increase still further.'
'How will we carry on then?'
'Well, we will just have to put stones in our pockets.'
'Indeed my uncle, you have a reply for everything.'
I didn't dare venture any further into the area of hypotheses, for I
would again have come up against some impossibility that would have
made the professor hopping mad.
It was clear, however, that the air, at a pressure which could reach
thousands of atmospheres, would end up solidifying, and then, even supposing
that our bodies could have resisted this, we would have to stop, in
spite of all the reasoning in the world.
But I did not communicate this argument; my uncle would have
counter-attacked again with his perpetual Saknussemm, a precedent
without value, for, even accepting as true the journey of the learned Icelander,
there was a very simple thing that could be said in reply.
In the sixteenth century, neither the barometer nor the manometer
had been invented; so how did Saknussemm know when he had reached
the centre of the globe?
But I kept this objection to myself and waited to see what the future
would bring. 
The rest of the day was spent calculating and chatting. I was always in
agreement with Professor Lidenbrock; and I envied the perfect indifference
of Hans who, without seeking causes and effects to such an extent,
carried blindly on wherever fate took him.
26
It must be admitted that things had gone well until now and it would
have been ungracious of me to complain. But if the average difficulty
didn't increase, we couldn't miss reaching our goal. And what glory then!
I had reached the point where I reasoned like a Lidenbrock. Quite seriously.
Was this due to the strange environment in which I was living?
Perhaps.
For a few days, steeper gradients, some of them even of an alarming
perpendicularity, brought us deeper into the internal rock massif. On
some days we gained between four and five miles towards the centre.
Perilous descents, during which Hans's skill and marvellous sang-froid
were very useful to us. The impassive Icelander gave of himself with an
incomprehensible straightforwardness and, thanks to him, we survived
more than one tricky situation which we wouldn't have got out of on our
own.
What was surprising was that his silence increased every day. I believe
that we were even catching it. External objects have a real effect on
the brain. The person who shuts himself up between four walls finishes up
losing the ability to associate ideas and words. How many people in prison
cells have become idiots, if not madmen, through lack of use of their faculties
of thought?
For the two weeks that followed our last conversation, nothing worth
reporting happened. I can only find in my memory a single event of an
extreme seriousness but with good reason. It would be difficult for me to
forget the smallest detail of it.
On 7 August our successive descents had brought us to a depth of
seventy miles; in other words, above our heads lay seventy miles of
rocks, of ocean, of continents, and of towns. We must have been about
five hundred miles from Iceland.
That day the tunnel was following a relatively gentle slope.
I was walking ahead. My uncle carried one of the Ruhmkorff lamps
and myself the other one. I was examining the granite strata.
Suddenly, turning round, I noticed that I was alone.
'So,' I thought, 'I've walked too quickly, or else Hans and my uncle
have stopped on the way. It's best to join up with them again. Fortunately,
the path doesn't climb very much.'
I went back the way I had just come. I walked for a quarter of an
hour. I looked. Nobody. I called out. No reply. My voice was lost in the
middle of the cavernous echoes that it suddenly awakened.
I began to feel worried. A shiver ran through my whole body. 
'Let's be calm,' I said out loud. 'I'm certain to be able to find my companions
again. There's only a single path. Now I was ahead let's go
back.'
I went up for half an hour. I listened out to see if some call was not
addressed to me. In such a dense atmosphere it might reach me from a
long way away. An extraordinary silence reigned in the immense tunnel.
I stopped. I couldn't believe that I was on my own. I wanted to think I
was just astray, not lost. When you've strayed from your path, you can
find yourself again.
'Let's see,' I repeated. 'Since there's only one route, since they're following
it, I must meet up with them again. All I have to do is go further
up. Unless, not having seen me, forgetting that I was ahead of them, they
thought they had to go back. Well, even in that case, I'll find them again
if I hurry. It's obvious.'
I repeated these last words like a man who is not convinced. What is
more, to put together such simple ideas and form them into reasoning, I
had to employ a great deal of time.
A doubt then took hold of me. Was I really ahead? Certainly Hans had
been following me, and he was in front of my uncle. He'd even stopped
for a few seconds to adjust the bags on his shoulder. The detail came
back to me. It was at that very moment that I must have continued on
my way.
'In any case,' I thought, 'I have a sure means of not getting lost, a
thread to guide me through this labyrinth, one which can never break: my
faithful stream. All I have to do is go back up its course and I will automatically
find my companions' traces again.'
This reasoning brought me back to life: I resolved to start off again
without losing a second.
How I blessed, then, the foresight of my uncle when he prevented the
hunter from blocking up the incision made in the granite wall. In this way
the health-giving source, having quenched our thirst en route, was going
to guide me through the meanders of the Earth's crust.
Before starting back up, I thought a wash would do me good.
I bent over to wet my forehead in the water of the Hans-Bach.
My stupefaction can be imagined.
Under my feet was dry and uneven granite. The stream was no longer
flowing at my feet!
27
I cannot depict my despair. No word in any human language would be
adequate to describe my feelings. I was buried alive with the prospect of
dying from agonies of hunger and thirst.
Without thinking I moved my burning hands over the ground. How
dried up this rock seemed to me!
But how could I have left the stream's course? for it just wasn't
there. I understood then the reason for the strange silence when I had
listened the last time to see if some call from my companions might not 
reach my ear. At the point when I had first started off on the wrong
route, I hadn't noticed at all that the stream wasn't there. Clearly, at that
moment, a forking in the gallery must have appeared in front of me,
whilst the Hans-Bach, obeying the whims of another slope, had gone off
with my companions towards unknown depths.
How could I get back? There were no traces at all. My feet left no imprint
on the granite. I cudgelled my brain, looking for a solution to this insoluble
problem. My position could be summed up in a single word: lost!
Yes, lost at a depth which seemed immeasurable to me: those seventy
miles of Earth's crust weighed down on my shoulders with a terrible
weight. I felt crushed.
I tried to take my mind back to things on Earth. I could hardly do so.
Hamburg, the house in Konigstrasse, my poor Grauben, this whole world
under which I was lost, went quickly through my terrified brain. I relived
the incidents of the journey in a brilliant hallucination, the events of the
crossing, Iceland, Mr Fridriksson, Snaefells. I said to myself that if, in the
present situation, I still kept the shadow of a hope, it would be a sign of
madness;80 that it was better to give in to despair.
Indeed, what human power could bring me back up to the surface of
the globe or break down the enormous vaults which buttressed each
other over my head? Who could put me on the route back and thus help
me rejoin my companions?
'Oh, my uncle,' I shouted, in a tone of despair.
It was the only word of reproach that came from my mouth, for I understood
that the unfortunate man must himself be suffering while looking
for me.
When I saw myself beyond all human help, unable to try and do anything
to save myself, I thought of the help of Heaven. Memories of my
childhood, of my mother whom I had known only at the time of kisses,
came back into my mind. I resorted to prayer, however little right I had
to be heard by a God whom I was addressing so late; and I implored him
with fervour.
This return to Providence made me a little calmer and I was able to
concentrate all the forces of my mind on the situation.
I had three days' food left, and my flask was full. However, I could not
remain alone any longer. But should I go up or down?
Go up, clearly, continue on up.
I would have to reach the point where I'd left the stream, the fateful
dividing of the ways. There, once I had the stream beside my feet, I
would still be able to get back up to the summit of Snaefells.
Why hadn't I thought of this sooner? There was clearly a chance of
being saved. The highest priority was to find the course of the Hans-Bach
again.
 80 a sign of madness: a precursor of the self-cancelling logic of Catch-22: if
one is sane enough to reason, then, given the circumstances, one must be mad;
and if one is mad. . . 
I got up and, leaning on my iron-tipped stick, went back up the tunnel.
The slope was quite steep. I walked with hope and without hindrance,
like a man who has no choice of path to follow.
For half an hour no obstacle stopped me. I tried to recognise my route
from the form of the tunnel, from the shape of some of the rocks, from
the patterns some of the crevices made. But no particular feature struck
my mind and soon I had to admit that this gallery could not lead me back
to the fork. It was a cul-de-sac. I collided with an impenetrable wall and
fell against it.
With what horror, with what despair I was seized then, I cannot say. I
lay there overwhelmed. My last hope had just broken against this granite
wall.
Lost in the labyrinth, whose multiple meanderings criss-crossed in all
directions, I could no longer try an impossible flight. I had to die from the
most terrifying of deaths and strangely enough it came into my mind
that if one day my fossilised body was found again, encountering it seventy
miles into the bowels of the Earth would raise serious scientific questions.

I wanted to speak out loud, but only rough sounds emerged from my
dried-up lips. I lay there panting very heavily.
In the midst of that anguish, a new terror came and took hold of my
mind. My lamp had broken when it fell; and I had no means of repairing
it. Its light was getting dimmer and was just about to give up.
I watched the luminous current as it diminished in the filament of the
apparatus. A procession of moving shadows flickered past on the darkened
walls. I no longer dared blink or move my eyes, afraid to lose the
least molecule of this fleeing light. At each moment it seemed to me that
it was going to vanish and blackness would take hold of me.
Finally, a last gleam trembled in the lamp. I followed it, I breathed it
in with my eyes, I concentrated the whole power of my vision on it, as if
on the last sensation of light that it would ever be able to see and was
then plunged into the depths of an immense darkness.
What a terrible shout came from me! On Earth, in the middle of the
darkest nights, light never entirely gives up its rights. It is diffuse, it is
subtle, but however little remains, the retina ends up receiving it. Here,
nothing. Absolute darkness made me a blind man in the full sense of the
word.
I lost my head. I raised my arms in front of me, trying to feel my way
in the most painful fashion. I started fleeing, rushing at random through
this inextricable labyrinth, going down all the time, running through the
Earth's crust like an inhabitant of the underground faults, calling, shouting,
screaming, soon bruised on the rock projections, falling and getting
up covered with blood, trying to drink the blood flooding over my face,
but constantly waiting for some wall of rock to come and offer an obstacle
for my head to break on. 
Where did this mad running take me? I shall never know. After several
hours, undoubtedly at the end of my strength, I fell like an inert mass
along the wall and lost all awareness of existence.
28
When I came back to life, my face was wet with tears. How long this
state of unconsciousness had lasted, I cannot say. I no longer had any
way of keeping track of time. Never had there been loneliness like mine,
never such complete abandon.
After my fall, I had lost a great deal of blood. I could feel myself covered
in it. Oh, how I regretted not being dead and that 'it all still had to
be done'. I no longer wanted to think. I pushed every idea out of my head
and, overcome by pain, rolled over towards the opposite wall.
Already I could feel fainting taking hold of me again, and with it the
supreme annihilation when a loud noise struck my ear. It was like long
rolling thunder; and I listened as the sound waves slowly disappeared into
the far depths of the abyss.
Where was this noise coming from? Undoubtedly from some phenomenon
happening in the heart of the Earth's mass. The explosion of
gas or the collapse of some major buttress of the globe.
I listened again. I wanted to know whether this noise would occur
again. A quarter of an hour went by. Silence reigned in the tunnel. I
couldn't even hear any more the sound of my own heart beating.
Suddenly my ear, by chance applied to the wall, seemed to detect
words: vague, imperceptible, distant. I shuddered.
'It's a hallucination,' I thought.
But no by concentrating harder on listening, I distinctly heard voices
murmuring. I was too weak to understand what was being said. Someone
was speaking though. I was quite certain of that.
For a moment I was terrified that it might be my own words coming
back to me through an echo. Perhaps I had been crying out without
knowing. I tightly closed my mouth, and once more placed my ear on the
granite wall.
'Yes, it's voices for sure! Definitely voices!'
By moving only a few feet along the side of the tunnel, I could hear
distinctly. I managed to make out strange, uncertain, incomprehensible
words. They reached my ear as if spoken in a low voice murmured, as it
were. The word forlorad was repeated several times in a sorrowful tone.
What could it mean, and who was speaking? It had to be my uncle or
Hans! But if I could hear them, they might easily be able to hear me.
'Help!' I cried with all my strength. 'Help!'
I then listened, I lay in watch in the darkness for a reply, a cry, a sigh.
But nothing could be heard. A few minutes passed. A whole world of ideas
burgeoned in my mind. I feared that my weakened voice might not reach
my companions.
'It must be them,' I repeated. 'What other men can be buried seventyfive
miles underground?' 
I began to listen again. By moving my ear along the side-wall, I found
the mathematical point where the voices appeared to attain their maximum
intensity. The word forlorad again reached my ear; then that rolling
of thunder which had dragged me from my torpor.
'No, no. These voices are not reaching my ears through the solid rock.
The walls are solid granite, and wouldn't allow the most fearful explosion
to pass through. The sound must be coming along the gallery itself. There
must be some peculiar acoustic effect here.'
Again I listened; and this time yes, this time I heard my name distinctly
projected through space.
It was my uncle speaking. He was conversing with the guide, and forlorad
was a Danish word.
Then everything became clear. To make myself heard, I too had to
speak along the side of the gallery, which would carry the sound of my
voice just as wires carry electricity.
But there was no time to lose. If my companions were only to move a
few feet away from where they stood, the acoustic effect would be destroyed.
So I again moved towards the wall, and said as distinctly as I
could:
'Uncle Lidenbrock!'
I then waited for a reply with the greatest possible anxiety. Sound
does not travel very quickly. Besides, the density of the layers of air did
not add to its speed; only to the volume. Several seconds, several ages
elapsed, and finally these words reached my ears:
'Axel, Axel! Is it you?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Yes, yes!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Where are you, my boy?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Lost, in the most complete darkness!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'And your lamp?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Out.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'And the stream?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Lost!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Axel, my poor Axel, courage.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Please wait a moment, Uncle. I'm exhausted. I no longer have the
strength to reply. But carry on speaking to me!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Courage,' said my uncle. 'Do not speak, but listen to me. We have
been searching for you both upwards and downwards in the tunnel. But 
with no success at all. I shed many tears for you, my child. Finally, we assumed
that you were still following the Hans-Bach down, and descended
again, firing our guns. Now, if our voices are in contact, this is only an
acoustic effect: our hands cannot touch. But do not despair, Axel. It is already
something to be able to hear each other.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
While he was speaking I had been thinking. A hope, still faint, was
coming back to me. Before anything else, there was one thing I had to
know. I therefore put my mouth close to the wall, and said:
'Uncle?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'My boy' came back after a while.
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'We must first of all find out how far apart we are.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'It is not difficult.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Do you have your chronometer to hand?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Yes.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Well, have it ready. Pronounce my name, noting exactly the second at
which you speak. I will repeat it as soon as it gets to me and you will
then note down the exact moment when my reply reaches you.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Very good; and half the time between my call and your answer will be
how long my voice takes to reach you.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Exactly, Uncle.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Ready?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Yes.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Well, stand by, I am about to pronounce your name.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
I applied my ear to the gallery, and as soon as the word 'Axel' reached
me, I repeated the word, then waited.
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Forty seconds,' said my uncle. 'Forty seconds between the two words.
Sound therefore takes twenty seconds to arrive. Now, at 1,020 feet per
second, that makes 20,400 feet: almost four miles.'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Almost four miles. . . '
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Which can be covered, Axel!'
. . . . . . . . . . . . 
'But up or down?'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Down, and I will tell you why. We have reached a vast open space,
where a large number of galleries culminate. The one you followed must
necessarily take you to this point, for it appears that all these fissures,
these fractures of the globe, radiate out from the vast cavern we are in.
Get up, then, and start walking again. If necessary drag yourself along 
slide on the steep slopes, and you will find our open arms at the end of
your journey. Off you go like a good fellow, off you go!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
These words brought me back to life.
'Farewell, Uncle, I am starting off. As soon as I leave here, our voices
will not be able to communicate. Farewell then!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
'Goodbye, Axel! See you soon!'
. . . . . . . . . . . .
These were the last words I heard.
This surprising conversation, transmitted through the vast mass of the
Earth, exchanged over almost four miles, ended with these words of
hope. I offered thanks to God, for he had led me through the dark vastnesses
to perhaps the only point where my friends' voices could reach
me.
This astounding acoustic effect can easily be explained by simple
natural laws; it arose from the peculiar shape of the gallery and the
conductibility of the rock. There are many instances of this propagation of
sounds, not perceptible in intermediate positions. I remembered that the
phenomenon can be observed in various places, including the Whispering
Gallery at St Paul's in London, and especially the curious caverns in Sicily,
those stone quarries near Syracuse, of which the most remarkable is
known as the Ear of Dionysus.
These memories came into my mind, and I realised that, since my uncle's
voice reached my ears, no obstacle could exist between us. By following
the path of the sound, logically I had to be able to reach him too,
provided my strength did not fail me.
I accordingly got up. I dragged myself along more than I walked. The
slope was very steep; but I allowed myself to slide down.
Soon the speed of the descent began to increase alarmingly; and
threatened to become a real fall. I no longer had the strength to stop myself.

Suddenly the ground disappeared from under my feet. I felt myself
rolling and hitting the projections of a vertical gallery, a veritable shaft.
My head struck a sharp rock, and I lost consciousness.
29
When I came to, I found myself in semi-darkness, lying on thick covers.
My uncle was watching his eyes fixed intently on my face, looking 
for any sign of life. At my first sigh he took hold of my hand. When he
saw that my eyes were open, he uttered a cry of joy:
'He's alive, he's alive!'
'Yes,' I said in a weak voice.
'My dear boy,' said my uncle, clasping me to his breast, 'you are
saved!'
I was deeply touched by the tone in which these words were uttered,
and even more by the devotion that accompanied them. But such trials
were necessary to produce a display of emotion like this in the professor.
At that moment Hans joined us. He saw my hand in my uncle's, and I
venture to say that his eyes showed a lively satisfaction.
'God dag,' he said.
'Good day, Hans, good day,' I murmured. 'And now, Uncle, tell me
where we are.'
'Tomorrow, Axel, tomorrow. You're still too weak today. I've bandaged
your head with compresses which mustn't be disturbed. Sleep, my boy,
sleep, and tomorrow I will tell you everything.'
'At least', I cried, 'tell me what time it is, what day it is.'
'Eleven o'clock at night, Sunday, 9 August, and I forbid you to ask any
more questions until the tenth of this month.'
I was, if the truth be told, very weak indeed, and my eyes soon closed
of their own accord. I did need a good night's rest, and dozed off with the
thought that my isolation had lasted two long days.
When I woke up the next morning I looked around. My berth, composed
of all our travelling rugs, was in a charming grotto, adorned with
magnificent stalagmites, and with a floor covered in soft sand. There
reigned a semi-darkness. No torch, no lamp was lighted, and yet a certain
inexplicable light entered from the outside through a narrow opening in
the grotto. I also heard a vague and indefinite murmur, like the moaning
of waves breaking on a strand, and occasionally the whistling of wind.
I began to wonder if I had woken up properly, if I wasn't still dreaming,
if my brain, cracked by my fall, was not registering purely imaginary
noises. However, neither my eyes nor my ears could be mistaken to that
extent.
'It's a ray of daylight,' I thought, 'coming through that crack in the
rocks. That really is the murmur of waves! And that is the whistle of the
wind! Am I imagining things, or have we returned to the surface of the
Earth? Has my uncle given up his expedition, then, or has it come to a
satisfactory conclusion?'
I was puzzling over these insoluble questions, when the professor
came in.
'Good day, Axel,' he cried happily. 'I'm willing to bet you are quite
well.'
'I am indeed,' I replied, sitting up in bed.
'I thought as much, for you slept calmly. Hans and I each took turns
to watch over you, and we saw you recovering by leaps and bounds.' 
'I really feel much better now; to prove it, I'll do justice to the breakfast
you're going to put before me!'
'You shall eat, my boy! The fever has left you. Hans has been rubbing
your wounds with some sort of ointment known only to Icelanders, and
they have closed up marvellously. He's a grand chap, is our hunter.'
While speaking, my uncle prepared a few items of food, which I devoured,
despite his advice. While I was eating I overwhelmed him with
questions, to which he did not hesitate to respond.
I learned that my providential fall had brought me to the end of an
almost perpendicular shaft. As I had come down in the middle of a torrent
of rocks, the smallest of which would have been enough to crush me, it
followed that a section of the rock-face must have slid down with me. This
terrifying vehicle had carried me straight into my uncle's arms, where I
had fallen, unconscious and covered in blood.
'It is truly incredible that you weren't killed a thousand times. But,
good God, let's stay together from now on, otherwise we will be in danger
of never seeing each other again.'
'Stay together from now on!' The journey wasn't over, then? My eyes
widened, which immediately prompted the question:
'What is the matter, Axel?'
'I want to ask you a question. You say that I'm safe and sound?'
'Undoubtedly.'
'I have all my limbs intact?'
'Certainly.'
'And my head?'
'Your head, apart from one or two bruises, is exactly where it ought to
be on your shoulders.'
'Well, I think my mind must have gone.'
'Gone?'
'Yes. We haven't returned to the surface of the Earth, have we?'
'Most certainly not!'
'Then I must be mad, for I can see the light of day, I can hear the
wind blowing and the sea breaking.'
'Oh! Is that all?'
'Will you please explain?'
'I will not explain anything, for it is inexplicable. But you shall see, and
you will realise that geological science has not yet said its last word.'
'Let's go then,' I cried, suddenly getting up.
'No, Axel, no! The open air might be bad for you.'
'Open air?'
'Yes, the wind is rather strong. I don't want you to put yourself in
danger like that.'
'But I tell you I feel wonderful.'
'Patience, my boy. A relapse would put us in an awkward position. We
have no time to lose, as the crossing could take a long time.'
'Crossing?'
'Yes. Have another rest today, and tomorrow we shall sail.' 
'Sail?'
The word shocked me.
Sail! Did we have a river, a lake, or a sea at our disposal? Was there a
ship anchored at some interior port?
My curiosity was aroused to fever pitch. My uncle tried in vain to restrain
me. When he realised that my impatience would do me more harm
than the fulfilment of my longings, he gave in.
I dressed quickly. As an extra precaution, I wrapped myself in one of
the covers and went out of the grotto.
30
At first I saw nothing. My eyes, no longer used to the light, snapped
shut. When I was able to open them again, I stood still, far more stupefied
than delighted.
'The sea!' I cried.
'Yes. The Lidenbrock Sea, and I like to believe that no other navigator
will contest the honour of having discovered it and the right to name it
with my own name.'
A vast expanse of water, the beginning of a lake or ocean, stretched
away out of view. The shoreline, greatly indented, offered the lapping water
a fine golden sand, dotted with those small shells that housed the first
beings of creation. The waves broke over it with that sonorous murmur
peculiar to vast enclosed spaces. A light foam was swept up by the breath
of a moderate wind, and some of the spray was blowing into my face. On
this gently sloping shore, about two hundred yards from the edge of the
waves, expired the last spurs of large cliffs that soared, widening, to an
immeasurable height. Some of them, piercing the shoreline with their
sharp edges, formed capes and promontories worn away by the teeth of
the surf. Further on, the eye was drawn by their shapes clearly outlined
against the hazy horizon in the distance.
It was a real ocean, with the capricious contours of the coastlines of
the surface. It was empty, though, and looked horribly wild.
If I was able to look so far across this sea, it was because of a special
light which revealed the smallest details. It was not the light of day with
its dazzling beams and splendid halo of rays, nor the pale indistinct illumination
of the night star, which is only a reflection without heat. No, the
luminous power of this light, its flickering diffusion, its clear dry whiteness,
the lowness of its temperature, its brilliance, superior even to the
moon's, all pointed to an electrical origin. It was like an aurora borealis, a
continuous cosmic phenomenon, filling this cavern big enough to hold an
ocean.
The vault suspended above my head, the sky as it were, seemed to be
made of vast clouds, moving, changeable water vapours which, due to
condensation, surely burst into torrential rain on certain days. I would
have thought that under such extreme atmospheric pressure, evaporation
could not take place; yet by some physical law which was beyond me,
there were great clouds filling the air. But at this moment 'it was a fine 
day'. The electric layers produced an astonishing play of light amongst the
high clouds. Clear shadows stood out on their lower curves and often, between
two separate strata, a ray of remarkable intensity slipped through
to us. And yet it was not the sun, for its light gave no heat. The effect
was sad, sovereignly melancholy. Instead of a firmament bright with
stars, I felt the granite vault above these clouds weighing down on me:
this space, immense as it was, would not have sufficed for the orbit of
even the humblest satellite.
I remembered then that theory of a British captain's which compared
the Earth to a vast hollow sphere, inside which the air was kept luminous
by reason of the great pressure, while two heavenly bodies, Pluto and
Proserpina,81 traced their mysterious orbits. Had he perhaps been telling
the truth?
In reality we were imprisoned in a vast excavation. It was impossible
to say how wide it stretched, since the shore broadened until it was out of
sight, nor how long, for the eye was soon restricted by a slightly uncertain
horizon. Its height must have been several miles at the very least. It was
impossible to make out where the vault rested on its granite buttresses,
as there was so much cloud floating in the atmosphere, which had to be
over two miles up, a height greater than on Earth. This was due no doubt
to the considerable density of the air.
The word 'cavern' is clearly insufficient for my attempt to convey this
immense place. The words which make up human language are inadequate
for those who venture into the depths of the Earth.
I could not think what geological event might explain the existence of
such a hollow. Could the cooling down of the globe have produced it? I
was acquainted, through the tales of travellers, with several famous caverns,
but none had such dimensions as this.
If the grotto of Guachara,82 in Colombia, visited by the learned Humboldt,
did not divulge the secret of its depth to him, although he explored
it for 2,500 feet, its extent could not in all plausibility have been much
more than that. The vast Mammoth Cave in Kentucky was another exam-
 81 Proserpina: the Roman goddess of the Underworld.
82 grotto of Guachara: Cuvo de Guacharos (after the name of the birds who
live there), near Caripe, Venezuela; Mammoth Cave in Kentucky: A Journey to
the Centre of the Earth (London, 1872; New York, 1874; and Boston, 1874) may
have been a source for The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (written in 1875-6). The
most striking scene of Mark Twain's book is perhaps ch. 31 where Tom and
Becky are lost in an underground labyrinth near the Mississippi. It bears many
similarities to Verne within the space of a page and half: '. . . aisles. . . names
[on the] rock walls. . . a little stream of water. . . carrying a limestone sediment.
. . steep natural stairway. . . branched off. . . spacious cavern. . . stalactites.
. . numerous passages that opened into it. . . crystals. . . subterranean
lake, which stretched its dim length away until its shape was lost in the shadows.
He wanted to explore its borders. . . "All is lost" ': there is also the same
following of the stream, the same way of getting lost, the same panic flight 'at
random', and the same protracted description of the last gleam of light going
out. 
ple of gigantic proportions, since its ceiling rose five hundred feet above
an unfathomable lake, and travellers had explored more than twenty-five
miles of it without ever reaching the end. But what were these holes compared
to the one I was now admiring, with its sky of clouds, its electric
illumination, and a vast ocean imprisoned in its breast? My imagination
felt powerless before such immensity.
I reflected upon all these marvels in silence. Words to describe my
feelings failed me completely. I felt as if I was on some distant planet,
observing Uranus or Neptune, phenomena which my 'Earthman' nature
had no knowledge of. New words were needed for new sensations, and
my imagination could not provide them. I looked, I thought, I admired, in
a stupefaction mingled with a certain amount of fear.
The unexpectedness of this spectacle had restored the flush of health
to my cheeks; I was in the process of treating myself by means of astonishment,
bringing about my cure through this novel therapy; besides, the
vigour of the very dense air was reviving me, by providing more oxygen
for my lungs.
It will not be difficult to understand that, after being confined in a narrow
gallery for forty-seven days, it was infinite ecstasy to breathe in this
breeze loaded with wet and salty emanations.
I could not possibly regret leaving my dark grotto. My uncle, already
used to these marvels, was no longer astonished.
'Do you feel strong enough for a little walk?' he asked.
'Yes, certainly, nothing would give me greater pleasure.'
'Well then, take my arm, Axel, and we'll follow the me-anders of the
shoreline.'
I accepted eagerly, and we began to skirt this new ocean. On the left,
precipitous rocks, humped one upon the other, formed a tremendous pile
of titanic appearance. Innumerable cascades wound down their sides,
stretching away in limpid, echoing sheets of water. A few light vapours,
springing from rock to rock, pointed to where hot springs lay; and
streams flowed gently towards their shared lagoons, seeking the opportunity
of the slopes to murmur more sweetly.
Amongst these streams I recognised our faithful travelling companion,
the Hans-Bach, which came to disappear peacefully into the sea as if it
had never done anything else since the beginning of the world.
'We shall miss it in future,' I said with a sigh.
'Bah!' replied the professor. 'That or another one, what difference
does it make?'
I found his reply a trifle ungrateful.
But at that moment my attention was distracted by an un-expected
sight. Five hundred paces away, beyond a high promontory, appeared a
tall, thick, dense forest. It consisted of trees of medium height, shaped
like regular sunshades, with neat and geometric silhouettes; the air currents
seemed to have no influence on their foliage, and in the midst of the
breezes they stayed as still as a clump of petrified cedars. 
I hurried forward. I could find no name for these singular varieties.
Did they belong to one of the two hundred thousand known vegetable
species, or would we have to give them a special place in the flora of water-based
vegetation? No. When we arrived under their shade, my surprise
turned to admiration.
I was in the presence of products of the Earth, but constructed on a
gigantic scale. My uncle named them immediately:
'It is just a forest of mushrooms.'
He was right. It may be imagined how big these plants grew in their
preferred hot, humid environment. I knew that the Lycoperdon giganteum
reached, according to Bulliard,83 eight or nine feet in circumference; but
here we had white mushrooms thirty or forty feet high, with caps of the
same width. There were thousands of them. No light could pierce their
dense cover, and complete darkness reigned beneath those domes,
crowded together like the round roofs of an African city.
I still wanted to push further in. A mortal chill seeped down from these
fleshy vaults. We wandered about for half an hour in these dank shadows,
and it was with a real feeling of well-being that I got back to the seashore.

But the vegetation of this subterranean land was not confined to
mushrooms. Further on there arose in groups a great many other trees
with faded leaves. They were easily recognisable; common shrubs of the
Earth, of phenomenal size, lycopodia a hundred feet high, giant sigillarias,
tree ferns as tall as pines from northern climes, lepidodendrons with cylindrical
forked stalks ending in long leaves bristling with coarse hairs like
monstrous fat plants.
'Astonishing, magnificent, splendid!' cried my uncle. 'Here we have the
complete flora of the Second Era of the world, the Transition Era. Here we
have those humble garden plants which became trees during the first
centuries of the Earth. Look, Axel, and admire! No botanist has ever been
invited to such a display!'
'Yes, Uncle. Providence seems to have wanted to preserve in this
enormous hothouse all the antediluvian plants which have been reconstructed
so successfully by scholars.'
'You are right there, my boy, it is a hothouse; but you could add that
it may be a menagerie too.'
'A menagerie?'
'Without a doubt. Look at this dust we are treading on, look at the
bones scattered on the ground.'
'Bones? Why, yes, the bones of prehistoric animals!'
 83 Bulliard: Jean-Baptiste Francois, called Pierre (1752-93), published notably
Histoire des champignons de la France (1784). In fact, most of Verne's
plants are taken directly from Louis Figuier, La Terre avant le deluge (1863), pp.
72-3. 
I swooped down on the age-old remains, made of some indestructible
mineral substance.84 I unhesitatingly put a name to these gigantic bones
which resembled dried-up tree trunks.
'Here is the lower jawbone of a mastodon,' I said; 'here are the molars
of a dinotherium; and here we have a thigh-bone which can only have belonged
to the biggest of these animals, the megatherium.85 Yes, it really
is a menagerie these skeletons were definitely not carried here by some
cataclysm. The animals they belonged to lived on the shores of this subterranean
sea, in the shade of these arborescent plants. Look, I can see
whole skeletons. And yet. . . '
'And yet?'
'I cannot understand how such quadrupeds came to be in this granite
cavern.'
'Why?'
'Because animal life only existed on Earth in the Secondary Period,
when the sedimentary soil was formed by the alluvial deposits, replacing
the red-hot rocks of the Primitive Era.'
'Well, Axel, there's a very simple answer to your objection; namely
that this soil is sedimentary.'
'What! So far below the surface of the Earth!'
'Without a doubt, and it can be explained geologically. At a certain period,
the Earth consisted only of an elastic crust, subjected to alternate
upward and downward movements, by virtue of the laws of gravity. These
probably gave rise to landslides, and a section of the sedimentary formations
was carried down to the bottom of newly opened chasms.'
'That must be true. But if prehistoric animals lived in the subterranean
regions, who is to say that one of those monsters is not still wandering
around in the middle of these dark forests or behind these steep rocks?'
At the idea, I scanned the horizon with a certain dread; but no living
creature appeared on the deserted shores.
I felt a little tired, and went and sat down right at the end of a promontory,
at whose foot the waves were noisily breaking. From there I could
see right round the bay, constituted by an indentation in the coast. At the
end there had formed a little harbour enclosed by pyramid-shaped rocks.
Its calm waters slept, sheltered from the wind. A brig and two or three
schooners might have anchored there with room to spare. I almost expected
to see some ship coming out, all sails set, making for the open sea
on the southerly breeze.
But this illusion soon faded. We really were the only living creatures in
this subterranean world. At times, when the wind dropped, a silence
deeper than the silence of the desert fell upon these arid rocks and
weighed upon the surface of the ocean. I tried, then, to penetrate the distant
mists, to tear apart the curtain which had fallen over the mysterious
 84 Calcium phosphate. [JV]
85 Megatherium: herbovorous edentate up to 18 feet tall, resembling the
sloth, found in S. America; Protopithecus: extinct genus of monkeys, related to
the modern howlers, found in the great caverns of Brazil. 
depths of the horizon. What questions rushed from my lips! Where did
this sea end? Where did it begin? Would we ever be able to sight the
shores on the other side?
My uncle, personally, had no doubts about the matter. For my part, I
both desired and feared it.
After an hour spent in contemplation of this marvellous spectacle, we
set off once more along the path of the strand to return to the grotto, and
it was in the grip of the strangest thoughts that I fell into a deep sleep.
31
I woke up the next day completely cured. I thought a bathe would do
me a lot of good, and so went and plunged for a few minutes in the waters
of this Mediterranean Sea. Such a name, surely, suited the sea better
than any other.
I returned and ate with a healthy appetite. Hans knew perfectly how
to cook our limited menu; and was equipped with fire and water, so could
vary our usual fare a little. With the pudding he served us cups of coffee,
and never had this delicious beverage tasted better.
'Now,' said my uncle, 'it's time for the tide, and we must not miss the
opportunity to study this phenomenon.'
'What! A tide?'
'Of course.'
'Can the influence of the moon and the sun be felt down here then?'
'Why not? Are not all bodies subject to the force of gravity? This mass
of water must therefore be subject to that universal law. So, despite the
atmospheric pressure on the surface, you will see it rise like the Atlantic
itself.'
During this time we were walking along the sand, and the waves were
creeping slowly up the shore.
'Look, there's the tide beginning,' I cried.
'Yes, Axel, and judging from the tidemark of foam, you can see that
the water rises about ten feet.'
'That's fantastic!'
'No, it's natural.'
'Say what you like, Uncle, this all seems extraordinary to me, and I
can hardly believe my eyes. Who would ever have thought that there
could be a real ocean inside the Earth's crust, with its own ebb and flow,
its own sea breezes and storms!'
'And why not? Is there some physical reason to prevent it?'
'Not that I can see, if we abandoned the theory of heat at the centre.'
'So up to this point Davy's theory appears to be confirmed?'
'It looks like it, and if that is the case there is nothing to oppose the
existence of seas or lands inside the Earth.'
'No doubt, but uninhabited.'
'But why shouldn't these waters shelter a few fish of some unknown
species?'
'Well at any rate we haven't found a single one so far.' 
'We could rig up some lines and see if a hook has the same success
here as in the sublunary oceans.'
'We'll try that, Axel, for we must unravel all the mysteries of these
new territories.'
'But where are we, Uncle? For I haven't yet asked you that question,
which the instruments must have answered for you.'
'Horizontally, 880 miles from Iceland.'
'As much as that?'
'I think I am right to the nearest mile.'
'And the compass is still pointing south-east?'
'Yes, with a deviation to the west of 19 42 , just like on the surface.
As to its "dip" there is something very peculiar happening which I have
been observing most carefully.'
'Which is?'
'The needle, instead of dipping towards the Pole as it does in the
northern hemisphere, is pointing upwards instead.'
'That means that the point of magnetic attraction lies somewhere between
the surface of the Earth and the place we have reached?'
'Exactly, and it is quite probable that if we reached the polar regions,
near the seventieth parallel where Sir James Ross86 discovered the magnetic
pole, we would see the needle point stand straight up. Therefore this
mysterious centre of attraction is not located at any great depth.'
'And that's something that science has never even suspected.'
'Science, my boy, is composed of errors, but errors that it is right to
make, for they lead step by step towards the truth.'
'How far down are we?'
'Eighty-seven miles.'
'So,' I said, examining the map, 'the Scottish Highlands are above us,
and up there the snow-covered peaks of the Grampians are rising to prodigious
heights.'
'Yes,' replied the professor with a laugh, 'it's a bit heavy to hold up,
but the vault is solid; the great architect of the universe built it of good
firm stuff, and man would never have been able to give it such a span!
What are bridge arches and cathedral vaults next to this nave forty miles
in diameter, beneath which an ocean and its storms can behave as they
wish?'
'Oh, I'm not afraid of the sky falling on my head. Now, Uncle, what
are your plans? Don't you intend to go back to the surface of the Earth?'
'Go back! What an idea. On the contrary, my intention is to continue
our journey, since everything has gone so well to date.'
'But I can't see how we are going to find our path underneath that liquid
plain.'
'I have no intention of diving in head first. But if, properly speaking,
oceans are nothing but lakes, since they are surrounded by land, then all
the more reason for this inner sea to be surrounded by granite banks.'
 86 Sir James Ross: 1800-62, British naval officer, explorer of the Arctic and
Antarctic; located the North Magnetic Pole in 1831. 
'There's no doubt about it.'
'Well then! I'm sure to find other exits on the opposite shore.'87
'So how long would you guess this ocean to be?'
'Eighty or a hundred miles.'
'Ah,' I said, thinking to myself that this estimate could well be inaccurate.

'Consequently we have no time to lose, and will set sail tomorrow.'
I looked instinctively round for the ship which would carry us.
'So,' I said, 'we're going to embark. Good! And which ship are we to
travel on?'
'No ship, but a good solid raft.'
'A raft!' I cried. 'A raft is just as impossible to build as a ship, and I
can't see. . . '
'You can't see, Axel, but if you were listening you'd be able to hear!'
'Hear?'
'Yes, hammer blows, which would tell you that Hans is already at
work.'
'Building a raft?'
'Indeed.'
'What! Has he already been chopping down trees?'
'The trees were already down. Come along, and you will see him at it.'
Quarter of an hour's walk later, I spotted Hans at work on the other
side of the promontory which enclosed the small natural harbour. After a
few more steps I was beside him. To my astonishment, a half-finished raft
lay on the sand; it was made from timbers of a distinctive wood, and a
great number of beams, knees, and frames were strewn over the ground.
There was enough material there to construct an entire fleet.
'Uncle,' I cried, 'what wood is this?'
'Pine, fir, birch, all sorts of northern conifers, petrified by the sea water.'

'Is that possible?'
'It is what is called surtarbrandur, or fossilised wood.'
'In that case, like lignite, it must be as hard as stone, and unable to
float.'
'Sometimes that is the case: some of the woods have become true anthracites;
but others, such as these, have only just begun to be transformed
into fossils. Watch this,' added my uncle, throwing one of the precious
spars into the sea.
The piece of wood disappeared for a moment, then bobbed up again
to the surface of the water to float up and down following its movements.
'Are you convinced?' said my uncle.
'Convinced that what I see is incredible!'
By the following evening, thanks to Hans's skill, the raft was finished;
it was ten feet long by five feet wide; the beams of surtarbrandur, bound
together with stout ropes, formed a solid surface. Once it had been
 87 opposite shore: Verne here quickly skips over the fact that there is little
logical reason to cross the sea. 
launched, the improvised vessel floated serenely on the waters of the
Lidenbrock Sea.
32
On 13 August we woke up early. We were now going to inaugurate
this new sort of transport, fast and not too tiring.
A mast made of two pieces of wood fastened together, a yard made
from another, and a sail borrowed from our blankets made up the rigging
of our raft. There was no lack of rope. The whole thing was solid.
At six o'clock the professor gave the signal to embark. Our provisions,
luggage, instruments, and weapons, along with a good supply of fresh
water collected among the rocks, were already on board.
Hans had fitted a rudder which allowed him to steer the floating construction.
He took the helm. I unhitched the mooring line attaching us to
shore. The sail was trimmed, and we set off at a rate of knots.
As we were leaving the little harbour, my uncle, who was very attached
to his geographic nomenclature, decided to give it a name and
proposed mine, amongst others.
'Well, I have another to suggest.'
'And what's that?'
'Grauben's. Port Grauben will look very good on the map.'
'Port Grauben it is.'
And that was how the memory of my dear Virland girl became linked
to our adventurous expedition.
The wind was blowing from the north-east. We ran before the wind at a
good speed. The very dense atmospheric layers had great propulsive power
and acted on the sail like a powerful fan.
After an hour, my uncle had been able to estimate our speed relatively
precisely.
'If we continue to advance at the present rate,' he said, 'we will cover
at least eighty miles every twenty-four hours, and it won't be too long before
we reach the opposite shore.'
I did not reply, and made my way to the front of the raft. The northern
coastline was already disappearing behind the horizon. The two limbs
of the shore were spread wide apart, as if to assist our departure. An immense
ocean stretched before my eyes. Massive clouds scooted along,
casting their grey shadows on the surface; shadows which seemed to
weigh down upon that dismal water. The silvery rays of electric light, reflected
here and there by drops of spray, picked out glittering points in
the vessel'
s wake. We were soon out of sight of land, without any point of reference,
and had it not been for the frothy wake of the raft, I could have believed
that we were totally motionless.
At about midday, immense patches of algae appeared, floating on the
surface of the waves. I was aware of the extraordinarily prolific power of
these plants, which creep along the bottom of the sea at a depth of more
than twelve thousand feet, reproduce under pressures of four hundred 
atmospheres, and often form masses large enough to impede the progress
of ships. But there can never, I believe, have existed algae as gigantic
as those of the Lidenbrock Sea.
Our raft swept along beside pieces of seaweed some three to four
thousand feet in length, immense snakes which stretched out far beyond
our horizon; it gave me great amusement to gaze along their infinite ribbon-like
lengths, thinking each moment that I had reached the end. Hour
after hour passed. If my astonishment increased, my patience was wellnigh
exhausted.
What natural force could have produced such plants? What must the
Earth have looked like during the first centuries of its formation when,
acted upon by heat and humidity, the vegetable kingdom was developing
solitarily on its surface?
Night came, but, as I had noticed the evening before, the luminosity
of the atmosphere did not reduce at all. It was a consistent phenomenon
whose permanence we could count on.
After supper, I stretched out at the foot of the mast, and soon, idly
dreaming, fell asleep.
Hans, motionless at the tiller, let the raft run. As the wind was aft, he
did not even have to steer it.
On leaving Port Grauben, Professor Lidenbrock had given me the job
of keeping the 'ship's log', with instructions to put down even the most
trivial observations, to note interesting phenomena, the direction of the
wind, our speed, the distance covered: in a word, every incident of our
fantastic voyage.
I will confine myself, therefore, to reproducing here those daily notes,
written, as it were, at the dictation of events, in order to give a more precise
account of our crossing.

Friday, 14 August. Steady breeze from the NW. Raft progressing with
extreme rapidity, going perfectly straight. Coast about eighty miles to
leeward. Nothing on the horizon. The intensity of the light never varies.
Weather fine; i.e. the clouds are very high, light, and fleecy, and floating
in an atmosphere resembling molten silver. Thermometer: 32C.
At midday Hans ties a hook to the end of a line. He baits it with a
small piece of meat and casts it into the sea. He doesn't catch anything
for two hours. Are there no fish in this sea? But yes, there is a tug on the
line. Hans draws it in, and then pulls out a fish, which is wriggling furiously.

'A fish!' cries my uncle.
'A sturgeon!' I shout in turn, 'Definitely a small sturgeon!'
The professor is examining the animal carefully, and he does not
agree with me. This fish has a flattened, curved head, and the lower parts
of its body are covered with bony plates; its mouth is wholly without
teeth; quite well-developed pectoral fins are fitted to its tailless body. This
animal certainly belongs to the order in which naturalists classify the
sturgeon, but it differs from that fish in many quite basic details. 
My uncle is not mistaken, after all. Following a short examination he
says:
'This fish belongs to a family which has been extinct for centuries, and
of which only fossil traces remain, in the Devonian strata.'
'What! Have we really captured alive an authentic inhabitant of the
primitive seas?'
'We have,' said the professor, continuing his observation, 'and you
may notice that these fossil fish are distinct from any existing species. To
hold a living specimen of the order in one's hand is a great joy for a naturalist.'

'But what family does it belong to?'
'To the order of ganoids, family of the Cephalaspis, genus. . . '
'Well?'
'Genus Pterychtis, I would swear to it. But this fish displays a peculiarity,
which is apparently encountered in the fish of underground waters.'
'Which one?'
'It is blind.'
'Amazing!'
'Not only blind, but absolutely without organs of sight.'
I look. It really is true. This, however, may be an isolated instance. So
the hook is baited again and thrown back into the water. The ocean must
be well stocked with fish, for in two hours we take a large number of
Pterychtis, as well as fish belonging
 to another extinct family the Dipterides,88 though my uncle cannot
classify them exactly. All are eyeless. This unexpected catch fortunately
renews our stock of provisions.
It now seems very probable that this sea contains only fossil species 
in which both fish and reptiles alike are more perfect the longer ago they
were created.
Perhaps we are going to find some of those saurians which science
has succeeded in recreating from bits of bone or cartilage?
I take the telescope and examine the sea. It is deserted. Doubtless we
are still too near the coast.
I look up. Why should not some of the birds reconstructed by the immortal
Cuvier89 be flapping their wings in the heavy strata of the atmosphere?
The fish would provide quite sufficient food. I search the space
above, but the airs are as uninhabited as the shores.
Nevertheless, my imagination carries me away into the fantastic hypotheses
of palaeontology. I am in a waking dream. I fancy I can see on
the surface of the water those enormous Chersites, tortoises from before
the flood, as big as floating islands. Along the darkened shores are pass-
 88 Dipterides: a genus of fish with only two fins.
89 Cuvier: Georges (1769-1832), French naturalist, founder of comparative
anatomy and of palaentology, researched on fossil bones, author notably of Discours
sur les revolutions du globe (1821). 
ing the great mammals of the first days, the Leptotherium90 found in the
caverns of Brazil, the Merycotherium, all the way from the glacial regions
of Siberia. Further up, the pachydermatous lophiodon, that gigantic tapir,
is concealing itself behind the rocks, ready to do battle for its prey with
the anoplothere, a singular animal taking after the rhinoceros, the horse,
the hippopotamus, and the camel, as if the Creator, in too much of a
hurry in the first hours of the world, had put together several animals in
one. The giant mastodon, twisting and turning its trunk, uses its tusks to
break up the rocks on the shore, whereas the megatherium, buttressed
on its enormous legs, is excavating the earth for food, all the while awaking
the sonorous echoes of the granite with its roaring. Higher up, the
Protopithecus, the first monkey to appear on the face of the globe, is
clambering up the steep slopes. Still higher, the pterodactyl, with its
winged claws, glides on the compressed air like a huge bat. Above them
all, in the topmost layers, are immense birds, more powerful than the
cassowary, greater than the ostrich, spreading their vast wings, about to
hit their heads against the roof of the granite vault.
This whole fossil world revives in my imagination. I am going back to
the biblical ages of the Creation, long before man was born, when the incomplete
Earth was not yet ready for him.91 My dream then goes ahead
of the appearance of animate beings. The mammals disappear, then the
birds, then the reptiles of the Secondary Period, and finally the fish, the
crustaceans, the molluscs, and the articulates. The zoophytes of the Transition
Period themselves return to nothingness. The whole of the world's
life is summed up in me, and mine is the only heart that beats in this depopulated
world! There are no longer seasons; no longer climates; the internal
heat of the globe is increasing unceasingly, cancelling out the effect
of the radiant orb. The vegetation is multiplying exaggeratedly. I pass like
a shadow amongst arborescent ferns, treading uncertainly on the iridescent
marls and rainbow-coloured sandstones underfoot; I lean against the
trunks of giant conifers; I lie down in the shade of sphenophylla, asterophyllites,
and lycopodia a hundred feet high.
The centuries are flowing past like days! I am working my way up the
series of earthly transformations. The plants disappear; the granitic rocks
lose their purity; the liquid state is about to replace the solid because of
the action of a greater heat; the waters are flowing over the surface of
the globe; they boil; they evaporate; the vapour is covering up the entire
 90 Leptotherium: 'Lepto': 'long and thin', 'therion': 'wild beast'; Mericotherium:
'meri': 'part'; Lophiodon: large, horse-like fossil mammal from the Eocene
Period; Anoplothere: extinct pachydermous quadruped, discovered in
Montmartre and restored by Cuvier; the Creator. . . in one: an example of
Verne's sacrilegious humour (which was cut from the standard American translation,
together with many other references to biblical Creation).
91 not yet ready for him: this is the clearest indication of Verne (and the mid-
19th century's) last-ditch attempt to reconcile science and the literal truth of
Genesis: by admitting that the Earth existed long before man, but with each of
the six 'days' of Creation being in fact an 'age'. 
Earth, which stage by stage becomes nothing but a gaseous mass, heated
to red- and white-hot, as big as the sun and shining as bright!
In the centre of this nebula, one million four hundred thousand times
as big as the globe it will one day form, I am carried off into planetary
space! My body is being subtilised, subliming in turn and commingling like
an imponderable atom with these immense clouds, which inscribe their
fiery orbit on infinite space!
What a dream! Where is it taking me? My feverish hand jots down the
strange details. I have forgotten everything: the professor, the guide, the
raft. A hallucination has taken hold of my head. . .
'What is the matter?'
My eyes, wide open, fix on my uncle without seeing.
'Take care, Axel, you're going to fall overboard!'
At the same time, I feel myself seized by Hans's firm hand. Had it not
been for him, under the sway of my dream, I would have thrown myself
into the waves.
'Is he going mad?' cries the professor.
'What is it?' I say at last, coming to.
'Are you ill?'
'No; I had a hallucination for a moment, but it's passed. Is all well on
board?'
'Yes, a beautiful breeze, a splendid sea. We are flying along and
unless my calculations are out, we shall soon land.'
At these words, I rise and scan the horizon. But the line of water is
still indistinguishable from the line of clouds.
33
Saturday, 15 August. The sea retains its uniform monotony. No land in
sight. The horizon seems a very long way away.
My head is still dull from the violent effects of my dream.
My uncle, who has certainly not dreamed, is, however, in one of his
moods. He is scanning every point in space with his telescope and crossing
his arms disappointedly.
I notice that Professor Lidenbrock has a tendency to revert to his impatient
character of before, and I note this circumstance in my logbook. It
required my danger and sufferings to extract a spark of kindness from
him; but now that I am better, his nature has taken charge again. And
yet why get annoyed? Isn't the journey proceeding under the most favourable
circumstances? Isn't the raft rushing along?
'You seem uneasy, Uncle?' I say, seeing him often putting the telescope
to his eye.
'Uneasy? No.'
'Impatient then.'
'With good reason!'
'And yet we are advancing at a rate. . . '
'I do not care! It is not our speed that is too small, but the sea that is
too big!' 
I remember then that the professor, before our departure, estimated
the length of this subterranean ocean to be about eighty miles. We have
already done at least three times that distance, but haven't discovered
the slightest sign of the southern shores.
'We are not going down,' continued the professor. 'All this is lost time.
I did not come so far for a boat-trip on a pond!'
He calls this voyage a boat-trip, and this ocean a pond!
'But', I argue, 'since we have been following the route indicated by
Saknussemm. . . '
'That is the question. Have we been following the route? Did Saknussemm
ever encounter this great stretch of water? Did he cross it? Did
the rivulet we took as a guide lead us astray?'
'In any case, we can't regret coming this far. The spectacle is magnificent,
and. . . '
'Seeing is not the question. I set myself an objective and I mean to
attain it. So don't talk to me about admiring!'
He doesn't need to say it again; and I let the professor bite into his
lips with impatience. At six in the evening, Hans asks for his pay, and the
three rix-dollars are counted out to him.

Sunday, 16 August. Nothing new. Same weather. The wind has a
slight tendency to freshen. When I wake up, the first thing I do is observe
the intensity of the light. I live in fear that the electric phenomenon might
dim and then go out. Nothing of the sort happens. The shadow of the raft
is clearly outlined on the surface of the water.
This sea is truly infinite. It must be as wide as the Mediterranean or
even the Atlantic. Why not?
My uncle tries sounding several times. He ties one of our heaviest
picks to the end of a rope, and allows it to run out for two hundred fathoms.
No bottom. We have great difficulty in pulling our sounding-line in
again.
When the pick has finally been dragged on board, Hans calls my attention
to some deep marks on its surface. The piece of iron looks as
though it has been firmly gripped between two hard objects.
I look at the hunter.
'Tander.'
I do not understand. I turn to my uncle, entirely absorbed in his reflections.
I have little wish to disturb him, and come back to the Icelander.
He opens and closes his mouth several times, and so conveys his
meaning to me.
'Teeth!' I cry with stupefaction, examining the iron bar more closely.
Yes, the indentations on the metal are the marks of teeth! The jaws they
adorn must have a prodigious strength! Is some monster of a lost species
tossing under the deep strata of the waters, hungrier than the dogfish
shark, more formidable than the whale? I am unable to detach my eyes
from the gnawed bar. Is my dream of last night about to become a reality?

These thoughts upset me all day, and my imagination scarcely calms
down in a sleep of a few hours.

Monday, 17 August. I have been trying to remember the particular instincts
of the antediluvian animals from the Secondary Period, which, following
on from the molluscs, the crustaceans, and the fish, emerged before
the mammals appeared on the globe. The reptiles then reigned supreme
upon the Earth. These hideous monsters held absolute sway over
the Jurassic seas.92 Nature endowed them with the most complete structures.
What gigantic organisms! What exceptional strength! The presentday
saurians, even the largest and most formidable crocodiles and alligators,
are but feeble reductions of their fathers of the first ages.93
I shudder at my own evocation of these monsters. No human eye has
ever seen them alive. They appeared on the Earth a thousand centuries
before man, but their fossil bones, discovered in the clayey limestone that
the British call lias, have allowed us to reconstruct them anatomically, and
thus know about their colossal size.
In the Natural History Museum of Hamburg I have seen the skeleton
of one of these saurians measuring thirty feet from head to tail. Am I,
then an inhabitant of the Earth going to find myself face to face with
representatives of this antediluvian family? No, it is impossible. And yet
marks of powerful teeth are engraved on the iron bar! I notice that they
are conical like the crocodile's.
My eyes stare with terror at the sea. I am afraid that one of these inhabitants
of the submarine caverns will suddenly emerge.
I imagine that Professor Lidenbrock shares my ideas, if not my fears,
for after an examination of the pick, he casts his eyes over the water.
What could have possessed him to sound the ocean? He has disturbed
some creature in its lair, and if we're not attacked on the way. . .
I glance at our firearms, and check that they are in a state of readiness.
My uncle sees me doing this and nods approvingly. Already wide
disturbances on the surface of the water indicate a troubling of the greatest
depths. Danger is near. We must keep a lookout.

Tuesday, 18 August. Evening comes, or rather the hour when sleep
closes our eyelids, for there is no night on this ocean, and the implacable
light constantly tires our eyes, as if we were navigating in the sunlight of
the Arctic seas. Hans is at the helm. During his watch I fall asleep.
 92 Seas of the Secondary Period which formed the terrains of which the Jura
Mountains are composed. [JV]
93 but feeble reductions of their fathers of the first ages: this remark follows
on from the idea that 'fish and reptiles are more perfect the further back they
were created' (ch. 32). The creationist view held that positive evolution was not
possible, only comparatively minor degradations or regressions: this may psychologically
be interpreted as consonant with a pre-Freudian inferiority complex
with respect to one's forefathers. 
Two hours later, I am awakened by an awful shock. The raft has been
lifted right out of the water with indescribable force, and thrown down
more than a hundred feet away.
'Eh, what is it?' cries my uncle. 'Have we hit?'
Hans points at a massive blackish object, about a quarter of a mile
away, which is moving steadily up and down. I look, then cry:
'But it's a colossal porpoise!'
'Yes, and over there is a sea lizard of a most unusual size.'
'And further on a prodigious crocodile. Look at its huge jaws, and its
rows of aggressive teeth. Oh, it's disappeared!'
'A whale, a whale!' shouts the professor, 'I can see its enormous tail.
Look, it's expelling air and water through its blowholes!'
Two liquid columns rise to a considerable height above the waves. We
remain surprised, stupefied, horrified at the sight of this herd of seamonsters.
They have supernatural dimensions the smallest of them
could crush the raft with a single bite. Hans seizes the helm so as to run
before the wind and flee this danger zone. But he notices more enemies
on the other side, just as formidable: a tortoise about forty feet across,
and a serpent, about thirty, thrusting an enormous head above the waters.

Impossible to flee. These reptiles advance upon us; then move round
the raft with a speed that could not be equalled by trains flying at top
speed. They swim about it in concentric circles. I pick up my rifle. But
what effect could a bullet have on the scales covering the bodies of these
animals?
We remain speechless with horror. They are now coming at us, the
crocodile on one side, the sea-serpent on the other. The rest of the marine
herd have disappeared. I am about to fire. Hans stops me with a
sign. The two monsters pass within a hundred yards of the raft, then
make a rush at each other: their fury prevents them from seeing us.
The combat starts two hundred yards from the raft. We distinctly see
the two monsters seizing hold of each other.
But now the other animals also seem to be taking part in the struggle the
porpoise, the whale, the lizard, and the tortoise. I catch sight of
them at every moment. I point them out to the Icelander. But he shakes
his head.
'Tva,' he says.
'What, two? He claims there are only two animals. . . '
'He is right,' says my uncle, whose telescope has not left his eye.
'It's incredible!'
'No. The first of these monsters has the snout of a porpoise, the head
of a lizard, and the teeth of a crocodile: hence our mistake. It is the most
frightful of all the antediluvian reptiles: the ichthyosaurus.'94
'And the other?'
 94 ichthyosaurus: 'ichthy': 'fish'; 'saur': 'lizard'. 
'A serpent, concealed under the hard shell of a turtle, and a mortal
enemy of the first: the plesiosaurus!'95
Hans is quite right. Only two monsters are disturbing the surface of
the sea. I have before me two reptiles from the primitive oceans. I can
see the bloody eye of the ichthyosaurus, as big as a man's head. Nature
has given it an extremely powerful optical apparatus, able to resist the
water pressure in the depths where it lives. It has been called the saurian
whale, for it is just as big and just as quick as that animal. This one is not
less than a hundred feet long, and I can get some idea of its girth when it
lifts its vertical tailfins out of the water. Its jaws are enormous and according
to the naturalists contain as many as 182 teeth.
The plesiosaurus, a serpent with a cylindrical trunk and a short tail,
has legs shaped into paddles. Its whole body is covered with a hard shell,
and its neck, as flexible as a swan's, rises more than thirty feet above the
waves.
These animals attack one another with indescribable fury. They raise
mountains of water, which surge as far as the raft. Twenty times we are
on the point of capsizing. Hisses of a frightening volume reach our ears.
The two animals are tightly embraced. I cannot distinguish one from the
other. Everything is to be feared from the rage of the victor.
One hour, two hours pass. The struggle continues un-abated. The two
foes now approach the raft, now move away from it. We remain motionless,
ready to fire.
Suddenly the ichthyosaurus and plesiosaurus disappear, hollowing out
a veritable maelstrom in the open sea. Several minutes go by. Will this
combat finish in the ocean depths?
Suddenly, an enormous head surges out the head of the great plesiosaurus.
The monster is mortally wounded. I can no longer see its
enormous shell. Only its long neck stands up, beats down, rises, bends
over again, lashes at the waters like a gigantic whip, writhes like a worm
cut in two. The water spurts out to a great distance. It blinds us. But soon
the reptile's death-throes are nearly at their end, its movements diminish,
its contortions calm down, and finally the long section of snake stretches
out, an inert mass on the waters, now quiet again.
As for the ichthyosaurus, has it gone down to rest in its mighty underwater
cavern; or will it reappear on the surface of the sea?
34
Wednesday, 19 August. Fortunately the wind, blowing with force, has
allowed us to flee the scene of the struggle. Hans is still at the helm. My
uncle, drawn from his absorbing ideas by the incidents of the battle, now
retreats again into his impatient contemplation of the sea.
Our voyage becomes monotonous and uniform once more. But I have
no desire to see it change, if it is at the price of yesterday's dangers.

 95 plesiosaurus: 'plesi': 'near'. The source of this scene is Figuier, pp. 143-
54, in turn derived from Cuvier. 
Thursday, 20 August. Light wind, NNE, variable. Temperature high.
We are moving at a rate of eight knots.
At about twelve o'clock a very distant sound is heard. I make a note
here of the fact without being able to give an explanation for it. It is like a
continuous roar.
'Far off', says the professor, 'is some rock or small island against
which the sea is breaking.'
Hans hoists himself to the top of the mast, but does not signal a reef.
The ocean is calm as far as the line of the horizon.
Three hours go by. The roaring seems to come from a distant cataract.

I mention this to my uncle, who shakes his head. I, however, am convinced
that I am right. Are we heading for some mighty waterfall which
will drop us into the abyss? This method of travel will probably please the
professor, as it approaches the vertical, but for my part. . .
In any case, not many leagues to windward there must be some very
noisy phenomenon, for now the sound of the roaring is extremely loud. Is
it coming from the sea or the sky?
I look up at the water vapour suspended in the atmosphere, and I try
to penetrate its depths.96 But the sky is serene. The clouds, carried up to
the very top of the vault, seem motionless, and are completely invisible in
the intense glare of the light. We must therefore look elsewhere for the
cause of the phenomenon.
I scrutinise the horizon, pure and free from all haze. Its appearance is
unchanged. But if this noise is coming from a waterfall, from a cataract, if
the ocean is being precipitated into a lower cavity, if these roars are being
produced by masses of falling waters, there would be a current, and its
increasing speed would show me the extent of the danger to which we are
exposed. I check the current. There isn't one. An empty bottle we drop in
the water simply remains to leeward.
At about four o'clock Hans stands up, takes hold of the mast, and
climbs to the top. From there his eye scans the arc of the ocean's circle
before the raft and stops at a particular point. His face expresses no astonishment,
but his eyes do not move.
'He has seen something,' says my uncle.
'So it would seem.'
Hans climbs down, and stretches his arm out towards the south:
'Der nere!'
'Over there,' says my uncle.
And seizing the telescope, he gazes with great attention for about a
minute, which to me appears an age.
'Yes. Yes!'
'What can you see?'
'A tremendous column of water rising above the waves.'
 96 its depths: the text from here until the words 'Although I was certain I
was covering ground we hadn't been over before. . .' (ch. 39) was added in the
seventh edition (1867). 
'Another sea-monster?'
'Perhaps.'
'Then let us head more to the west, for we know what to expect from
the dangers of meeting up with antediluvian creatures.'
'Straight ahead,' replies my uncle.
I turn towards Hans. He maintains course with an inflexible rigour.
Nevertheless, given the distance separating us from this creature,
which cannot be less than thirty miles, and given that the column of water
from its blowhole is clearly visible, its dimensions must be quite preternatural.
To flee is therefore the course suggested by basic common
sense. To run away would be to obey the most vulgar caution. But we are
not here to be prudent.
We accordingly press on. The nearer we get, the taller the column of
water becomes. What monster can fill itself with such volumes of water
and shoot it out so continuously?
At 8 p.m., we are not more than five miles away. A black, enormous,
mountainous body lies on the water like an island. Is it an illusion or is it
our fear? It seems not less than a mile long. What, then, is this cetaceous
monster which Cuvier and Blumenbach97 never dreamed of? It is motionless
as if asleep. The sea seems unable to shift it; it is the waves instead
that lap at its side. The water column, rising to a height of five hundred
feet, breaks into spray with a dull, sullen roar. We advance like lunatics
towards that mighty hulk which a hundred whales could not feed for a
single day.
I am terrified. I don't want to go any further. I will cut the halyard if
need be! I mutiny openly against the professor: he makes no answer.
Suddenly Hans gets up and points at the menacing spot:
'Holme.'
'An island!' cries my uncle.
'An island?' I reply, raising my shoulders.
'Of course!' exclaims my uncle, bursting into loud laughter.
'But what about the water column?'
'Geyser,' says Hans.
'Yes, obviously a geyser,' responds my uncle, 'like those in Iceland.'98
At first I cannot admit that I am so totally wrong. To have taken an island
for a sea-monster!99 But one must give in to the evidence, and finally
I have to accept my mistake. There is nothing here but a natural
phenomenon.
As we get nearer, the dimensions of the column become truly stupendous.
It is difficult to tell the difference between the island and an enor-
 97 Blumenbach: Johann Friedrich (1752-1840), German zoologist and anthropologist,
pioneer in craniology.
98 A very famous spring that gushes up, situated at the foot of Mount Hekla.
[JV]
99 To have taken an island for a sea monster!: this section announces Vingt
mille lieues sous les mers, which begins with evidence of a supernatural-seeming
sea monster. 
mous whale, with its head rising sixty feet above the swell. The geyser, a
word the Icelanders pronounce 'gay-seer' and which means 'fury',
emerges majestically at one end of the island. Dull detonations are heard
every now and then, and the enormous jet, subject to violent rages,
shakes off its plume of vapour and spurts up as far as the first stratum of
cloud. It is alone. Neither exhalations nor hot springs surround it, and the
whole volcanic power is concentrated in it. Rays of electric light come and
mix with this dazzling column, with each drop taking on all the colours of
the prism.
'Let's go alongside,' says the professor.
We have to take precautions, however, to avoid the water column,
which would sink the raft in an instant. Hans, steering skilfully, takes us
to the other end of the island.
I leap on to the rock. My uncle nimbly follows, while the hunter remains
at his post, like a man beyond such wonders.
We walk over granite mixed with siliceous tuff; the soil shivers under
our feet like the sides of boilers writhing with superheated steam: it feels
burning hot. We come in view of the little central hollow from which the
geyser rises. I plunge an overflow thermometer100 into the water bubbling
from the centre: it registers a temperature of 163 !
This water, therefore, comes from a burning source of heat. This is
singularly in contradiction with Professor Lidenbrock's theories. I cannot
resist pointing it out.
'Well,' says he, 'what does that prove against my theory?'
'Nothing,' I reply shortly, seeing that I am up against an implacable
stubbornness.
Nevertheless, I am forced to confess that we have been remarkably
fortunate up until now, and that, for a reason which still escapes me, our
journey is taking place in unusual conditions of temperature. But it appears
evident, nay certain, that sooner or later we shall arrive at one of
those regions where the central heat reaches its utmost limits and goes
far beyond the gradations on the thermometers.
We shall see. That is now the professor's favourite phrase. Having
baptised the volcanic island with the name of his nephew, he gives the
signal to embark.
I stand still for a few minutes more, staring at the geyser. I notice
that the jet of water is irregular in its outbursts: it diminishes in intensity,
then regains new vigour, which I attribute to variations in the pressure of
the vapour built up in its reservoir.
At last we leave, avoiding the sheer rocks of the southern side. Hans
has taken advantage of this brief halt to reorganise the raft.
Before we put off, however, I make a few observations to calculate
the distance covered, and note them in my logbook. Since Port Grauben,
 100 an overflow thermometer: the first cousin of the escapement clock which
generates 'Maitre Zacharius' (1854), with clear Freudian overtones. 
we have covered 680 miles. We are now 1,550 miles from Iceland, and
underneath Britain.101
35
Friday, 21 August. The following day the magnificent geyser has disappeared.
The wind has freshened, and quickly takes us away from Axel
Island. The roaring sound gradually dies down.
The weather, if such a term may be used here, is about to change.
The atmosphere is gradually being loaded with water vapour, which carries
with it the electricity generated when the salt waters evaporate. The
clouds are lowering perceptibly and taking on a uniform olive hue; the
electric rays can scarcely pierce this opaque curtain which has fallen on a
stage where a stormy drama is going to be enacted.
I feel peculiarly influenced, like all creatures on Earth when a catastrophe
is about to happen. The cumuli,102 piled up in the south, present a
sinister appearance: they have the 'pitiless' look I have often noticed at
the beginning of a storm. The air is heavy, the sea calm.
In the distance, the clouds look like enormous bales of cotton, piled up
in picturesque confusion. They gradually swell up, and gain in size what
they lose in number: they are so heavy that they are unable to hoist
themselves from the horizon. But in the breath from the upper streams of
the air, they gradually melt together, become darker and soon present a
single layer of a formidable appearance; now and then a ball of misty
cloud, still lit up, collides with the grey carpet, and is soon swallowed up
by the impenetrable mass.
There can be no doubt that the entire atmosphere is saturated with
fluid; I am impregnated with it; my hair stands on end as if beside an
electric machine. It occurs to me that if one of my companions touched
me now, he would probably get a violent shock.
At 10 a.m., the symptoms of the storm become more pronounced; the
wind seems to soften in order to draw breath again, as if in preparation;
the cloud resembles a goatskin bottle inside which terrible storms are accumulating.

I do not want to accept the evidence of the sky's menacing signs, and
yet I cannot stop myself saying:
'It looks as though we are going to have some bad weather.'
The professor does not answer. He is in an atrocious mood at the sight
of the ocean stretching interminably before his eyes. At my words he
shrugs his shoulders.
'We're going to have a storm,' I continue, pointing towards the horizon.
'These clouds are lowering upon the sea, as if to crush it.'
A great silence. The wind falls. Nature lies as if dead, ceasing to
breathe. Upon the mast, where I can already see a slight St Elmo's fire,
the sail hangs in loose, heavy folds. The raft is motionless in the midst of
that sticky sea, without swell. But since we are not moving, what is the
 101 underneath Britain: in fact central France.
102 Clouds with round shapes. [JV] 
point of maintaining the canvas, for it may be our downfall as soon as the
tempest hits us?
'Let's lower the sail, let's bring down the mast! That would be the sensible
thing to do.'
'No, for God's sake,' cries my uncle, 'a hundred times, no. May the
wind take hold of us, may the storm sweep us away. Let me finally see
the rocks of some shore, even if the raft must break into smithereens on
them.'
These words are scarcely out of his mouth, than the appearance of the
southern horizon is transformed. The accumulated moisture resolves itself
into water, and the air, violently sucked in to fill the vacuum produced by
the condensation, becomes a raging storm. It comes from the most distant
corners of the cavern. The darkness increases. I can only just take a
few incomplete notes.
The raft rises, it leaps. My uncle is cast down. I drag myself over to
him. He is holding on to the end of a rope with all his might, apparently
gazing with pleasure at the spectacle of the unchained elements.
Hans does not move a muscle. His long hair, pushed down over his
motionless face by the tempest, gives him a strange appearance, for the
end of each hair is illuminated by a tiny, feather-like radiation. His frightening
mask is that of an antediluvian man, living at the time of the ichthyosaurus
and megatherium.
The mast still holds. The sail stretches like a bubble about to burst.
The raft hurtles on at a velocity that I cannot estimate, but is still slower
than the drops of water displaced beneath it, which the speed turns into
clean straight lines.
'The sail, the sail!' I cry, gesturing that it should be brought down.
'No!'
'Nej,' says Hans, gently shaking his head.
By now, the rain forms a roaring cataract in front of this horizon towards
which we race like madmen. But before we reach it, the veil of
cloud is torn apart; the sea begins to boil; and the electricity, produced by
some great chemical action in the upper layers, is brought into play. Dazzling
streaks of lightning combine with fearful claps of thunder; flashes
without number criss-cross amongst the crashes. The mass of water vapour
becomes incandescent; the hailstones striking the metal of our tools
and firearms become luminous; each of the waves surging up resembles a
fire-breathing breast, in which seethes an internal radiance, with each
peak surmounted by plumes of flames.
My eyes are dazzled by the intensity of the light, my ears deafened by
the din of the thunder. I am forced to hold on to the mast, which bends
like a reed before the violence of the storm!
. . . . . . . . . . . .
[Here my travel notes became very incomplete. I have only found one
or two fleeting observations, jotted down automatically so to speak. But
even in their brevity, their incoherence, they are imprinted with the feel-
ings which governed me and thus, better than my memory, portray my
mood at the time.]
. . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunday, 23 August. Where are we? Being carried away with immeasurable
speed.
The night has been awful. The storm is not calming down. We are living
in the midst of an uproar, a constant detonation. Our ears are bleeding.
We are unable to exchange a single word.
The lightning never stops striking. I see the retrograde zigzags flashing
rapidly and then working their way back up to crash into the arch of
the granite roof. What if it collapsed? Other flashes of lightning fork or become
globes of fire and explode like bombshells. The general level of
noise does not seem to be increased by this; it has already gone beyond
the order of magnitude that the human ear can distinguish. If all the
powder magazines in the world were to explode at the same time, it
would not make any difference.
There is a constant production of light from the surface of the clouds;
their molecules incessantly give off electrical matter; the gaseous principles
of the air have been changed; innumerable columns of water leap up
into the air and then fall down foaming.
Where are we going? My uncle is still flat out at the front of the raft.
The heat increases even further. I look at the thermometer, it reads
?? [The figure is illegible.]

Monday, 24 August. Will this terrible storm ever end? Why should this
state of hyper-dense atmosphere, once it has been modified, not remain
as it is indefinitely?
We are broken with fatigue. Hans the same as ever. The raft heads
endlessly south-east. We have already done five hundred miles since Axel
Island.
At noon the tempest becomes a hurricane. We are forced to lash down
every item in the cargo. Each of us ties himself down as well. The waves
pass over our heads.
Impossible to say a single word to each other for the last three days.
We open our mouths, we move our lips; no audible sound is produced.
Even speaking directly into the ear does not work.
My uncle comes close. He pronounces some words. I think he says:
'We are lost.' I am not certain.
I make up my mind, and write a few words to him: 'Let's take in the
sail.'
He nods to indicate his consent.
His head has not had time to resume its original position, when a disc
of fire appears on the edge of the raft. The mast and sail are carried off in
a single movement, and I see them fly away to a tremendous height like
a pterodactyl, that fantastic bird of the earliest centuries.
We are frozen with terror. The ball is half white, half electric blue, of
the size of a ten-inch bombshell. It moves leisurely around, while turning 
with an astonishing speed under the lash of the storm. It wanders about
here and there, it clambers on to one of the cross-beams of the raft,
jumps on the food bag, gives a little leap, then lightly touches our powder-keg.
Horror, we are about to explode. But no the blinding disc
moves to one side, it goes up to Hans, who stares at it without blinking;
then to my uncle, who throws himself on his knees to avoid it; it comes
towards me, as I stand pale and shivering in the dazzling heat and light;
it pirouettes near my feet, which I try to pull back. I can't.
A smell of nitrous gas fills the air; it penetrates our throats and lungs.
We choke on it.
Why can't I move my foot? Is it riveted to the spot? Then I understand:
the arrival of the electric globe has magnetised all the iron on
board.103 The instruments, the tools, the firearms are crashing together
with a keen jangling noise; the nails in my boot are violently attracted to
a plate of iron encrusted in the wood. I can't shift my foot.
At last, by a violent effort, I tear my foot away, just as the rotational
movements of the ball are about to seize hold of it and drag me away too,
if. . .
Oh what intense light! The globe bursts we are being covered in torrents
of flames!
Then everything goes out. I just have time to see my uncle lying on
the floor, Hans still at the helm, 'spitting fire' under the influence of the
electricity; he is saturated with it.
Where will we end up, oh where?
. . . . . . . . . . . .
Tuesday, 25 August. I have just come out of a very long faint. The
storm is still continuing; the lightning breaks loose like a swarm of snakes
released into the air.
Are we still on the sea? Yes, being carried along with incalculable
speed. We have passed under Britain, under the Channel, under France,
possibly under the whole of Europe!104
. . . . . . . . . . . .
A new noise can be heard. Clearly the sea breaking on rocks. But
then. . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .
36
Here ends what I called the 'ship's log', fortunately saved from the
shipwreck. I proceed with my narrative as before.
What happened when the raft hit the reefs on the shore, I cannot say.
I felt myself being thrown into the waves, and if I escaped death, if my
 103 magnetized. . . board: Le Sphinx des glaces (1897), which culminates at
an immense magnetic centre near the North Pole, is foreshadowed in this scene.
104 passed. . . Europe: in 'L'Eternel Adam' (1910), this scene is paralleled
when the protagonists sail in search of land over the successive countries of a
flooded Europe. 
body was not torn to pieces by the sharp rocks, it was because Hans's
strong arm pulled me from the abyss.
The fearless Icelander carried me out of reach of the waves and on to
burning sand, where I found myself lying side by side with my uncle.
Then he returned to the rocks, against which the furious waves were
beating, in order to save a few stray pieces from the wreckage. I could
not speak; I was broken with fear and fatigue; it took me more than an
hour to recover.
The rain continued to fall, however, a positive deluge, but with that
very violence which heralds the end of the storm. Some piled-up rocks
gave us protection from the torrents from the heavens. Hans prepared
some food which I was unable to touch; exhausted by the three nights
keeping watch, I fell into a disturbed sleep.
Next day, the weather was magnificent. Sea and sky, as if by agreement,
had regained their serenity. Every trace of the storm had disappeared.
Cheerful words from the professor greeted me when I woke up.
His gaiety was terrible.
'Well, my lad! Did you sleep soundly?'
Might one not have thought that we were in the old house in Konigstrasse,
that I was quietly coming down for breakfast, and that my wedding
with poor Grauben was to take place that very day?
Alas, if only the tempest had driven the raft eastwards, we would have
passed under Germany, under my beloved city of Hamburg, under that
street which contained all I loved in the world. At that point hardly a hundred
miles would have separated me from her. But a hundred vertical
miles of granite wall: in reality, more than 2,500 miles to cover!
All these unhappy ideas passed quickly through my mind before I answered
my uncle's question.
'What?' he repeated. 'Can you not say how you slept?'
'Perfectly. But every bone in my body aches. I'll be all right.'
'I am sure you will be completely all right, a little tired, nothing more.'
'You appear very gay this morning.'
'Delighted, my boy, delighted! We have arrived.'
'At the end of our expedition?'
'No; at the edge of that sea which seemed endless. We will now resume
our journey by land, and really plunge into the vitals of the Earth.'
'Uncle, can I ask you a question?'
'Certainly, Axel.'
'How are we going to get back?'
'Get back? You are thinking about the return before we have even arrived!'

'Not really: all I want to know is how will it be done?'
'In the simplest way possible. Once we have reached the centre of our
spheroid, either we shall find a new path to climb up to the surface, or we
shall quite boringly turn round and go back the way we came. I do not
imagine that the route will close up behind us.'
'Then we will have to think about repairing the raft.' 
'Obviously.'
'But what about the food, have we got enough left to do all these
great things?'
'Yes, certainly. Hans is a clever fellow, and I am sure he has saved
most of the cargo. But let's go and see for ourselves.'
We left this grotto, open to all the winds. I had a hope that was also a
fear; it didn't seem possible to me that anything of what the raft had
been carrying could have survived its terrible landing. I was wrong. When
I reached the shore, I found Hans in the middle of a large number of objects,
all laid out in order. My uncle wrung the hunter's hands with deep
gratitude. This man, of a superhuman devotion, one that would perhaps
never be equalled, had worked while we slept, saving the most precious
articles at the risk of his life.
Nevertheless, we had experienced important losses: our firearms for
example but after all we could manage without them. The supply of
powder had remained intact, after narrowly escaping being blown up in
the storm.
'Well,' said the professor, 'as we have no guns, we will simply have to
give up hunting.'
'Yes, but what about the instruments?'
'Here is the manometer, the most useful of all, and for which I would
have given the rest. With it I can calculate the depth and know when we
have reached the centre. Without it, we might go too far and come out at
the antipodes!'
His good mood was ferocious.
'But the compass?'
'Here it is on this rock, safe and sound, as well as the chronometer
and thermometers. The hunter is a genius!'
One had to agree. Amongst the instruments, nothing was missing. As
for the tools and implements, I spotted ladders, cords, pickaxes, picks,
etc., scattered over the sand.
There was still the question of provisions to sort out.
'And what about the food?'
'Let us see about it.'
The boxes were lined up along the shore in a perfect state of preservation;
most of their contents were unharmed by the sea, and we could
thus still count on a total of four months' supply of biscuits, salt meat,
gin, and dried fish.
'Four months!' cried the professor. 'We have time to go there and
come back, and with what is left I plan to give a huge dinner to my colleagues
at the Johanneum!'
By this time I should have been used to my uncle's character, and yet
this man still amazed me.
'Now,' said he, 'we must renew our stock of fresh water, using the rain
that the storm has poured into the hollows in the granite. There is no
danger of suffering from thirst. As for the raft, I shall ask Hans to repair it
as best he can, although I do not believe we shall be requiring it again.' 
'Why not?'
'Just one of my ideas, my boy. I do not believe we shall go out the
way we came in.'
I looked at my uncle with suspicion. I wondered whether he had gone
mad. And yet 'little did he know how right he was'.
'And now for breakfast,' he concluded.
I followed him on to a high promontory, after he had given instructions
to the hunter. There, with dried meat, biscuits, and tea, we had an
excellent meal: one of the best in my life, I must say. Hunger, the open
air, the peace and quiet after the excitement, all combined to give me an
excellent appetite.
During breakfast, I asked my uncle if he knew where we now were.
'It may be rather difficult to calculate,' I added.
'To calculate exactly, yes, even impossible, for I could keep no account
of the speed or direction of the raft during the three days of the
tempest. Still, we can estimate our approximate position.'
'Well, our last observation was made at the island with the geyser.'
'At Axel Island, my boy! Do not decline the honour of giving your
name to the first island discovered in the interior of the Earth.'
'All right. At Axel Island, we had done more than 670 miles by sea and
were over 1,500 miles from Iceland.'
'Fine. Let us start then from that point, and count four days of storm,
during which our speed cannot have been less than two hundred miles
every twenty-four hours.'
'ffery probably. That would make as much as eight hundred miles extra.'

'Yes, and the Lidenbrock Sea would then be about 1,500 miles across!
Do you realise, Axel, that it is about as big as the Mediterranean?'
'Yes, especially if we have only crossed it and not gone its whole
length!'
'Which is very likely.'
'And what is strange,' said I, 'is that if our calculations are right, we
have over our heads at this very moment the Mediterranean itself.'
'Do you think so?'
'Yes, for we are 2,300 miles from Reykjavik.'
'A good stretch of road we have travelled, my boy. But whether we
are under the Mediterranean, Turkey, or the Atlantic can only be determined
if our direction has remained constant.'
'The wind appears steady to me. My view is that this shore must be
south-east of Port Grauben.'
'Well, it is easy to check by consulting the compass. Let us therefore
go and check this compass!'
The professor headed for the rock on which Hans had placed the instruments.
My uncle was gay and light-hearted; he rubbed his hands, he
struck poses. A young man in truth! I followed him, rather curious to
know whether I was right in my estimation. 
As soon as we had reached the rock, my uncle took the compass, laid
it flat and looked at the needle, which oscillated and then, under the
magnetic influence, stopped in a fixed position.
My uncle looked, rubbed his eyes, then looked again. Finally he turned
to me, flabbergasted.
'But what's the matter?'
He pointed to the instrument. I examined it and a loud cry of surprise
escaped from my lips. The needle marked north where we expected
south! It pointed at the shore rather than out to sea!
I shook the compass, then examined it again. It was in perfect condition.
Whatever position we made the needle take, it returned obstinately
to the same surprising direction.
There could be no doubt about it: during the tempest, there had been
a sudden change of wind, one we had not noticed, and which had brought
the raft back to the shores my uncle thought he had left behind for ever.
37
It would be altogether impossible for me to give any idea of the feelings
that shook the professor: amazement, incredulity, and finally rage.
Never in my life had I seen someone so crestfallen at first, and then so
furious. The fatigues of our crossing, the dangers we had passed through,
everything had to be started all over again. Instead of making progress,
we had gone backwards.
But my uncle was on top again very soon.
'Fate plays me such tricks! The elements are conspiring against me.
Air, fire, and water are combining to stop me getting through. Well, they
are going to see what my will-power can do. I shall not yield, I shall not
retreat a tenth of an inch. We shall see who wins: man or Nature!'
Standing on a rock, irritated, threatening, Otto Lidenbrock, like wild
Ajax,105 seemed to be hurling defiance at the gods. I judged it sensible to
intervene and put some sort of check upon this mad eagerness.
'Listen to me,' I said in a firm voice. 'There must be a limit to every
ambition in this world. One must not fight against the impossible. We are
ill-equipped for a sea voyage; one cannot cover 1,200 miles on a poor
construction of beams, with a blanket as a sail and a stick for a mast,
against the unleashed winds. Since we are unable to steer, we will become
the playthings of the storm, and it is to act like lunatics to attempt
this impossible crossing a second time.'
I was allowed to go through these irrefutable reasons for about ten
minutes without interruption. But this was only because of the professor's
inattention: he did not hear a single word of my arguments.
'To the raft!' he cried.
Such was his response. In vain did I implore him, did I lose my temper:
I came up against a will harder than granite.
 105 wild Ajax: in Greek mythology, a hero of the Trojan War, who defied the
gods and whom Poseidon caused to fall into the sea and drown. 
Hans was just finishing his repairs to the raft. It was almost as if this
strange being had guessed my uncle's projects. By means of a few pieces
of surtarbrandur, he had strengthened the vessel. A sail had already been
hoisted, and the wind was playing over its floating folds.
The professor said a few words to the guide, who immediately loaded
our luggage on board and prepared everything for departure. The atmosphere
was now pure, and the north-west wind held steady.
What could I do? Resist, one against two? Impossible. If only Hans
had supported me. But no, as far as I could see, the Icelander had set
aside all volition of his own and taken a vow of self-denial. I could get
nothing out of a servant so feudally subjugated to his master. All I could
do was not rock the boat.
I moved106 to take my usual place on the raft, but my uncle stopped
me with his hand.
'We shall only start tomorrow.'
I made the gesture of a man resigned to everything.
'I must not neglect a single factor. As fate has cast me upon this
stretch of shore, I shall not leave again until I have explored it.'
In order to understand his remark, I need to explain that, though we
had come back to the northern coastline, this was not at exactly the same
spot as our starting-point. Port Grauben had to be to the west. Hence
nothing was more sensible than carefully reconnoitring the area around
our new landfall.
'Let's explore!' I cried.
And we set off, leaving Hans to his activities. The area between the
high-water tidemark and the foot of the cliffs was very large. It would
take about half an hour to get to the rock wall. Our feet crushed innumerable
seashells of every shape and size, once the houses of animals of the
first ages. I also noticed enormous shells with a diameter of more than
fifteen feet. They once belonged to those gigantic glyptodonts107 of the
Pliocene Period, of which the modern tortoise is but a minute reduction.
In addition, the soil was covered with a large amount of stony jetsam, a
sort of shingle rounded by the waves, arranged in successive rows. I
came to the conclusion that in past ages the sea must have covered this
area. The waves had indeed left evident signs of their passage on the
scattered rocks, now lying beyond their reach.
This could to a certain extent explain the existence of such an ocean,
a hundred miles below the surface of the Earth. According to my theory,
this liquid mass must have been gradually lost into the bowels of the
Earth: it clearly came from the water of the oceans, reaching its destination
through some sort of fissure. Nevertheless, it had to be assumed that
 106 I moved: ('j'allai'), 1864 edition: 'I was going to' ('j'allais'). The difference
of a single letter, phonologically minimal and without much significance for the
primary meaning, has nevertheless an important consequence on conceptions of
tense in the novel: in particular, it marks a distinction between action and intention,
between objective movement and internal reflection.
107 glyptodonts: extinct mammals in S. America, resembling giant armadillos. 
this fissure was now blocked up, for, if not, the cavern, or rather the immense
reservoir, would have been completely filled in a relatively short
period. Perhaps some of the water had even had to contend with the subterranean
fires, and so was vaporised. Hence an explanation for the
clouds suspended above our heads and the emission of the electricity
which created the storms inside the Earth's mass.
Such a theory of the phenomena we had witnessed struck me as satisfactory,
for however great the marvels of Nature, they can always be explained
with physical reasons.
We were thus walking over a kind of sedimentary soil formed by the
subsidence of the waters, like the very many formations of that period on
the surface of the globe. The professor carefully examined every crack in
the rocks. If an opening existed, it became vital for him to plumb its
depths.
We had been following the shores of the Lidenbrock Sea for about a
mile, when suddenly the ground changed appearance. It seemed to have
been upset, turned upside down by a violent upheaval of the lower strata.
In many places, hollows and hillocks bore witness to great dislocations of
the terrestrial mass.108
We were advancing with difficulty over the broken granite mixed with
flint, quartz, and alluvial deposits, when a field more than a field, a plain
of bones, appeared before our eyes. It looked like an immense cemetery,
where the generations of two thousand years mingled their eternal dust.
Large bulges109 of remains stretched out in the layered distance. They
undulated away to the limits of the horizon and were lost in an out-offocus
mist. Within that area, of perhaps three square miles, was accumulated
the whole history of animal life, writ too small in the recent ground
of the inhabited world.
We were carried forward by an impetuous curiosity. With a dry sound
our feet crushed the remains of these prehistoric animals, whose rare and
valuable fragments are fought over by the museums of the great cities. A
thousand Cuviers would not have been enough to reconstruct the skeletons
of all the once living creatures which now rested in that magnificent
bone-graveyard.
I remained dumbfounded. My uncle had raised his long arms towards
the impenetrable vault which was our sky. His mouth was gaping tremendously,
his eyes were flaring behind the lenses of his glasses, his head
was moving up and down, to the left and right his whole expression indicated
utter astonishment. He was presented with a priceless assortment
of Leptotheria, Merycotheria, lophiodons, anoplotheres, megatheria, mastodons,
Protopitheci, pterodactyls of every monster from before the
Flood, all in a pile there just for his gratification. Imagine the famous library
in Alexandria that Omar burned, suddenly and miraculously reborn
 108 great dislocations of the terrestrial mass: the text here bears witness to
its own irruption into the previous edition.
109 large bulges: Verne's 'extumescences' is a medical term meaning 'tumefactions';
he is perhaps also making a pun ('ex-tumescences'). 
from its ashes; and transport a fanatical book-collector into it. That was
my uncle Professor Lidenbrock!
But his awe reached a climax when, racing across the organic dust, he
seized a bare skull and screamed in a trembling voice:
'Axel, Axel! It's a human head!'
'A human head?' I replied, just as dazed.
'Yes, my boy. O Milne-Edwards,110 O Quatrefages. How I wish you
could see me here, Otto Lidenbrock!'
38
To explain this reference to the two distinguished scientists, it should
be recalled that a palaeontological event of great importance had taken
place some months before our departure.
On 28 March 1863, French workmen under the direction of M. Boucher
de Perthes111 had unearthed a human jawbone at a depth of fourteen feet
below the soil, in a quarry at Moulin-Quignon, near Abbeville (Somme). It
was the first fossil of the sort ever to see the light of day. Near it were
stone axes and worked flints, which time had covered with a uniform coloured
patina.
This discovery had a huge impact, not only in France but in Britain and
Germany. Many scholars from the Institut Francais, including Messrs
Milne-Edwards and Quatrefages, took the affair very much to heart; demonstrated
the incontestable authenticity of the bones in question; and
hence became the most impassioned defence witnesses in the 'trial of the
jawbone', as it was called in Britain.
In addition to the United Kingdom geologists who considered the fact
as certain Messrs Falconer,112 Busk, Carpenter, et al. stood the German
scholars. Amongst the most eminent, the most enthusiastic, the most carried
away, was my uncle Lidenbrock.
The authenticity of a human fossil from the Quaternary Era seemed
therefore proved and approved beyond all shadow of a doubt.
 110 Milne-Edwards: Henri (1800-85), French zoologist, worked especially on
molluscs and crustaceans; Quatrefages: Jean-Louis-Armand de Quatrefages de
Breau (1810-92), French naturalist and anthropologist, opponent of Darwinism,
author of Histoire de l'homme (1867).
111 Boucher of Perthes: (1788-1868), discovered flint tools near Abbeville in
1837 and 1844; and argued from 1846 onwards that man had existed in prehistoric
times. Only following their first recognition in Britain in 1860 were his arguments
really debated in France, in 1865 (hence the extra chapters in 1867).
The theme of the undiscovered genius is an important one in Verne.
112 Falconer: Hugh (1808-65), British palaeontologist and botanist; Busk:
George (1807-86), British specialist in the fossil marine polyzoa, author of several
scientific works, including Description of the Remains of Three Extinct Species
of Elephant (1865); Carpenter: William Benjamin (1813-85), British physiologist
and author of A Popular Cyclopaedia of Natural Science (1841-4) and Zoology.
. . and Chief Forms of Fossil Remains (1857, reissued 1866); also an expert
on dredging the ocean depths; also author of The Unconscious Action of the
Brain (1866-71). 
Such a view, it is true, was vigorously challenged by M. Elie de Beaumont.113
This authoritative and respected scientist maintained that the
formation of Moulin-Quignon did not belong to the 'diluvium' but was
more recent. In agreement with Cuvier on this point, he contended that
the human race could not have existed at the same time as the animals of
the Quaternary Era. But my uncle Lidenbrock, in accordance with the
great majority of geologists, had held his ground, had argued and discussed and
M. Elie de Beaumont had remained relatively isolated in his
view.
My uncle and I were familiar with the successive ins and outs of this
affair. But what we did not know was that, after we had left, it had undergone
further developments. Additional jawbones of the same sort, although
belonging to individuals of different types and different nations,
were discovered in the loose grey soil of certain large caves in France,
Switzerland, and Belgium together with weapons, utensils, tools, and the
bones of children, adolescents, adults, and old people. The existence of
Quaternary man became therefore more and more certain with each
passing day.
And this was not all. New fragments excavated in Pliocene formations
from the Tertiary Period had enabled scientists with even livelier imaginations
to attribute a much greater age to the human race. These fragments,
it is true, were not human bones, but merely the products of his
industry: tibias and femurs of fossil animals, marked with regular
grooves, carved so to speak, bearing the signs of man's handiwork.
Thus, in a single move, man had leaped many centuries up the ladder
of time. He now came before the mastodon; he became a contemporary
of the Elephas meridionalis;
114 his exist-ence dated back a hundred thousand
years, since that was when the geologists said the Pliocene system
was formed!
The above elements constituted the state of palaeontological science
at that time, and what we knew of them was sufficient to explain our reaction
to this ossuary beside the Lidenbrock Sea. My uncle's stupefaction
and joy are easy to understand, especially when, twenty yards further on,
he found himself in the presence of, or rather face to face with, an authentic
specimen of Quaternary man.
It was a perfectly recognisable human body. Had some particularity of
the soil, as in the Saint-Michel Cemetery in Bordeaux, preserved it unchanged
down through the centuries? It was difficult to say. But in any
case this body was before our eyes exactly as it had lived complete with
stretched, parchment-like skin, limbs still fleshy and soft, apparently at
least, teeth still preserved, a considerable head of hair, and finger- and
toe-nails of a frightening length.
 113 Elie de Beaumont: (1798-1874), French geologist, argued against the existence
of prehistoric man.
114 elephas meridionalis: ('southern elephant') lived in Eurasia in the Quarternary
Era. 
I was dumbstruck at this apparition from another age. My uncle, usually
possessed of such a way with words, normally so eager to make
speeches about anything, fell silent as well. We propped the body up
against a rock. He looked at us from his hollow eye-sockets. We twanged
his sonorous chest.
After a few moments of silence, my uncle reverted to Herr Professor
Otto Lidenbrock, undoubtedly carried away by his personality and forgetting
the circumstances of the journey, our immediate surroundings, and
the tremendous cavern holding us. He must have thought he was lecturing
to his students at the Johanneum, for he adopted a professorial tone
and addressed an imaginary audience:
'Gentlemen, I have the pleasure of introducing to you a man from the
Quaternary Era. Some eminent scholars have argued that he does not exist,
while others, no less eminent, have maintained that he does. The
doubting Thomases of palaeontology, if they were here, would be able to
touch his body with their hands, and thus be forced to admit their error. I
know full well that science must be constantly on its guard concerning
discoveries of this sort. I am not unaware of the exploitation of fossil men
by the Barnums115 and other charlatans of this world. I am not unacquainted
with the story of Ajax's kneecap, with what was claimed to be
Orestes' body116 as found by the Spartans, or with Asterius' ten-cubitlong
body as described by Pausanias. I have read the reports on the
Trapani skeleton discovered in the fourteenth century, which people
wished to believe was Polyphemus', as well as the accounts of the giant
dug up in the sixteenth century near Palermo. You are as aware as I, gentlemen,
of the analysis carried out at Lucerne in 1577 of the enormous
bones claimed by the illustrious doctor Felix Plater to belong to a giant
nineteen feet tall. I have devoured Cassanion's treatises, and all the
monographs, pamphlets, presentations, and counter-presentations ever
published on the skeleton of Teutobochus, King of the Cimbrians, who invaded
Gaul and who was excavated from a sandpit in the Dauphine in
1613.117 In the eighteenth century, I would have combated Peter
 115 Barnums: Phineas Taylor Barnum (1810-91), famous American showman;
also prominent in Verne's 'Le Humbug'.
116 Oreste's body: Oreste, mythological son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra;
Asterius: all of Verne's information about giants, including the proper
names, is taken directly from Figuier, pp. 300-3. The Trapani giant is in turn
cited from Boccaccio (1313-75); Pausanias: Greek traveller, topographer, and
author (c. AD 100), his best-known work was translated as Pausanias; ou voyage
historique de la GrPce. Nouvelle edition augmentee du 'Voyage autour du
monde', par Scylax (1797).
117 Trapani and Palermo: in Sicily; Polyphemus: son of Poseidon (Greek god
of the sea and of earthquakes), and one of the Cyclopes; Felix Plater: Felix Platter
or Platerus (in Latin), The Elder and the Younger, German physiologists,
studied in Montpellier in 16th century; Cassanion: Jean Chassanion or Joannes
Cassanio, author of De gigantibus, eorumque reliquijs, atque ijs, quF ante annos
aliquot nostra Ftate in Gallia repertEQ \O(e,,) sunt. . . , Basle, 1580; Cimbrians:
or Cimbri, German tribe originally from N. Jutland, but retreated northwards in 
Camper's affirmations regarding the existence of Scheuchzer's preAdamites!
I have held in my hands the publication entitled Gi. . . '
Here re-emerged my uncle's inherent impediment of not being able to
pronounce complicated words in public.
'The book entitled Gi-Gi-gans. . . '
He couldn't go any further.
'Gi-gan-teo. . . '
Impossible, the wretched word just would not come out! There would
have been much laughter at the Johanneum.
'Gigantosteology,' Professor Lidenbrock said, between two oaths.
Then, continuing all the better, and warming up:
'Yes, gentlemen, I am aware of all these matters. I also know that Cuvier
and Blumenbach have identified the bones as simply those of mammoths
and other animals of the Quaternary Period. But to doubt in the
present case would be to insult science! The corpse is there! You can inspect
it, touch it. It is not a mere skeleton, it is an entire body, preserved
for exclusively anthropological purposes!'
I was careful not to contradict this assertion.
'If I could wash it in a solution of sulphuric acid, I would remove all
the earth encrustations and splendid shells attached to it. But the precious
solvent is unavailable at present. However, as it stands, this body
will recount its own story.'
Here, the professor picked up the fossil corpse and adjusted it with all
the dexterity of a showman at a fair.
'As you can see, it is less than six feet tall, and we are a long way
from the so-called giants. As for the race it belongs to, it is incontestably
Caucasian. It is of the white race, it is of our own race! The skull of this
fossil is oval-shaped and regular, without developed cheekbones, without
a projecting jaw. It presents no sign of prognathism modifying the facial
angle.118 119 Measure this angle, it is nearly ninety degrees. But I will proceed
further along the path of deductions, and I will venture to say that
this human specimen belongs to the Japhetic family, which extends from

3rd century, and thus probably introduced the use of the runic alphabet into
Norway and Sweden; Teutobochus: Figuier (pp. 262-3) reports that 'Teutobocchus
Rex' was in fact merely the bones of a giant mammal but was fraudulently
exhibited in 'every town in France'. Peter Camper: (1722-89), Dutch anatomist,
author of works on mammalian anatomy; Scheuchzer: Johann Jacob, Swiss author
of selections from the Bible dealing with natural history, especially Homo
Diluvii Testis (1731) and Physique sacree ou histoire naturelle de la Bible (1732),
describing fossil remains believed to be human ones from the Flood. The Gigantosteology
that Lidenbrock stutters over is by N. Habicot (1613).
118 The facial angle is formed by the intersection of two planes, one more or
less vertical and forming a tangent to the forehead and the incisor teeth, the
other horizontal, passing through the opening of the auditory passages and the
lower nasal cavity. One defines prognathism, in anthropological language, as this
projection of the jaw-bone modifying the facial angle. [JV]
119 the facial angle: in the racist theories current at the time, it was the facial
angle that helped determine the race. 
the Indian subcontinent to the far limits of western Europe. Pray do not
smile, gentlemen!'
Nobody was smiling, but the professor was used to seeing faces
broadening during his scholarly perorations.
'Yes,' he continued with renewed vigour, 'this is a fossil man, and a
contemporary of the mastodons whose bones fill this auditorium. But by
what route it arrived here, how the strata it was enclosed in slid down
into this enormous cavity of the globe, I am unable to tell you. Undoubtedly,
in the Quaternary Period, considerable upheavals in the Earth's crust
still occurred. The lengthy cooling of the globe produced fissures, cracks,
and faults, into which part of the upper terrain must have dropped. I am
not committing myself, but, after all, this man is here, surrounded by the
handiwork he produced, his axes and worked flints which define the Stone
Age. Unless he came as a tourist, as a scientific pioneer, I cannot then
question the authenticity of his ancient origin.'
The professor stopped speaking, and I broke into unanimous applause.
My uncle was in fact right, and more learned people than his
nephew would have found it very difficult to argue with him.
Another clue. This fossilised body was not the only one in the enormous
ossuary. With each step we took in this dust, we came across other
bodies: my uncle was able to pick out the most wonderful specimens that
would have convinced the most sceptical.
It was indeed an amazing sight, that of generations of men and animals
mingling in this cemetery. But a puzzling mystery then arose, that
we were not yet able to solve. Had these creatures slid down to the
shores of the Lidenbrock Sea during some convulsion of the Earth, when
they were already dead? Or had they rather passed their lives down here,
in this underworld, under this unnatural sky, being born and dying here,
just like the inhabitants of the Earth? Until now, only monsters of the
deep and fish had appeared before us in living form. Was some man of
the abyss still wandering along these lonely shores?
39
For another half-hour we trampled over the layers of bones. We went
straight ahead, forced on by a burning curiosity. What other wonders did
this cavern hold, what treasures of science? My eyes expected every surprise,
my mind every astonishment.
The seashore had long since disappeared behind the hills of the bonegraveyard.
The foolhardy professor, heedless of losing the way, led us
further and further on. We walked in silence, bathed in the waves of electric
light. By a phenomenon I cannot explain, the light was uniformly diffused,
so that it lit up all the sides of objects equally. It no longer came
from any definite point in space, and consequently there was not the
slightest shadow. It was like being under the vertical rays of the midday
sun in midsummer in the midst of the equatorial regions. All mist had disappeared.
The rocks, the distant mountains, the blurry forms of a few faraway
forests, all took on a strange appearance under the even distribu-
tion of the luminous fluid. We were like that fantastic character of Hoffmann's
who lost his shadow.120
After about a mile, we saw the edge of an immense forest, but not
this time a grove of mushrooms like the one near Port Grauben.
It displayed the vegetation of the Tertiary Period in all its splendour.
Great palm trees of species no longer in existence and superb palmaceae,
pines, yews, cypress, and thujas121 represented the coniferous family, all
joined together by an impenetrable network of creepers. The ground was
carpeted with a springy covering of moss and hepaticas. Streams murmured
under the shade if this term can be used, for there was no
shadow. On the banks flourished tree ferns, like those of the hothouses of
the inhabited globe. Colours, however, were absent from all the trees,
shrubs, and plants, deprived as they were of the life-giving heat of the
sun. Everything was dissolved into a uniform hue, brownish and faded as
if past. The leaves were not their usual green, and the very flowers, so
numerous in the Tertiary Age when they first appeared, were at that time
without colour or perfume, as if made of a paper that had been yellowed
by the effect of the atmosphere.
My uncle ventured into this gigantic thicket. I followed, not without a
certain apprehension. Where nature had provided such vast stores of
vegetable foodstuffs, might fearful mammals not be encountered? In the
large clearings left by fallen trees, gnawed by time, I noticed leguminous
plants, acerinae, rubiaceae, and a thousand edible shrubs, much appreciated
by the ruminants of all periods. Then there appeared, all intermixed
and intertwined, trees from highly different countries on the surface of
the globe, the oak growing beside the palm tree, the Australian eucalyptus
leaning on the Norwegian fir, the northern birch mingling its branches
with the New Zealand kauri. It was enough to upset the sanity of the
most ingenious classifiers of terrestrial botany.
Suddenly I stopped short. I held my uncle back.
The uniform light made it possible to see the smallest objects in the
depths of the thicket. I thought I saw, no, I really did see, enormous
shapes wandering around under the trees! They were in fact gigantic
animals, a whole herd of mastodons, no longer fossil, but fully alive, and
resembling the ones whose remains were discovered in the bogs of Ohio
in 1801. I watched these great elephants with their trunks swarming
about below the trees like a host of serpents. I heard the sound of their
great tusks as the ivory tore at the bark of the ancient tree-trunks. The
 120 Hoffmann's. . . shadow: E. T. A. Hoffmann (1776-1822), German writer;
the character is Peter Schlemihl, referred to in New Year's Eve as drawn from
The Shadowless Man; or the Wonderful History of Peter Schlemihl (1814), by
Adalbert von Chamisso (1781-1838). But the essential idea here is undoubtedly
the traditional one that a person who loses his shadow is in the land of the dead.
121 cypress and thujas: the cypress traditionally represents mourning, and
the thuja is also known as the arbor vitae ('tree of life'). The juxtaposition of opposites
is a favourite topos of Verne's. 
branches cracked, and the leaves, torn off in great clumps, disappeared
into the monsters' massive maws.
So the dream where I had seen the rebirth of this complete world
from prehistoric times, combining the Tertiary and Quaternary Periods,
had finally become a reality! And we were there, alone in the bowels of
the Earth, at the mercy of its fierce inhabitants!
My uncle was gazing.
Suddenly he seized me by the arm, crying:
'Come on! Forward, forward!'
'No, no! We are unarmed! What could we do amongst these giant
quadrupeds? Come, Uncle, come! No human creature can brave the anger
of these monsters unscathed!'
'No human creature?' said my uncle, lowering his voice. 'You are
wrong, Axel! Look, look over there! It seems to me that I can see a living
creature a being like us a man!'
I looked, shrugging my shoulders, determined to push incredulity to
its furthest limits. But struggle as I might, I had to give in to the evidence.

There, less than a quarter of a mile away, leaning against the trunk of
an enormous kauri tree, was a human being, a Proteus of these underground
realms, a new son of Neptune, shepherding that uncountable
drove of mastodons!122
Immanis pecoris custos, immanior ipse!123
'Immanior ipse' indeed! This was no longer the fossil creature whose
body we had propped up amongst the bones: this was a giant, able to
command these monsters. He was more than twelve feet tall. His head,
as big as a buffalo's, was half-hidden in the brush of his wild locks a real
mane, like that of the elephants of the first ages. He swung in his hand an
enormous bough, an appropriately primeval crook for this shepherd from
before the Flood.124
We remained motionless, in a daze. But we might be spotted. We had
to retreat.
'Run for it!' I shouted, dragging my uncle with me, who for the first
time in his life didn't resist.
 122 Proteus: a minor sea-god, herdsman of the flocks of the sea, had the
power to take on many shapes; Neptune: Roman god of the sea, part of the ritual
of his festival was the building of shady arbours (umbrae) made of boughs.
Verne is here hinting at a parallel evolutionary tree.
123 Immanis pecoris custos, immanior ipse!: 'Guardian of a monstrous herd,
and more monstrous himself!': Verne is borrowing this quotation from Victor
Hugo, Notre-Dame de Paris (pt 4, ch. 3), which adapts Virgil (Bucolica, v. 44),
'formosi pecoris custos formosior ipse' ('Guardian of a fine herd, finer still himself').

124 bough. . . shepherd from before the Flood: cf. Books 11 and 12 of The
Odyssey, where Ulysses in Hades sees a giant pursuing wild animals with a club
in his hand. 
A quarter of an hour later, we were out of sight of this redoubtable
foe.
And now, when I consider it calmly, now that peace has returned to
my mind, now that months have gone by since this strange, this supernatural,
encounter what am I to think, what am I to believe? No, it's just
not possible! Our senses must have been mistaken, our eyes can't have
seen what they saw! No human creature lives in that underground world.
No race of men populates those deep caverns of the globe, oblivious of
the inhabitants of the surface, not communicating with them in any way!
It's insane, deeply insane!
I would rather believe in the existence of some animal with a humanoid
structure, some ape from the first geological eras, some Protopithecus,
some Mesopithecus like the one discovered by M. Lartet in the
bone-laden bed of Sansan!125 But this one was far bigger than all the
measurements known to modern palaeontology. Never mind: however
unlikely, it was an ape! But a man, a living man, and with him a whole
generation entombed in the bowels of the Earth? Never!
Meanwhile we had left the clear, luminous forest, speechless with
shock, weighed down by a stupefaction that came close to brutishness.
We couldn't help running. It was a real flight, like those terrifying automatisms
that one sometimes gets caught up in in nightmares. Instinctively
we made our way towards the Lidenbrock Sea. I do not know what
wild paths my mind would have taken me along, if a particular worry
hadn't brought me back to more practical considerations.126
Although I was certain I was covering ground we hadn't been over before,
I kept noticing groups of rocks whose shapes reminded me of Port
Grauben. This in fact confirmed what the compass had indicated that we
had unintentionally headed back to the north of the Lidenbrock Sea.
Sometimes it all seemed uncannily similar. Hundreds of streams and cascades
fell from the rocky outcrops. I imagined I was back near the layer
of surtarbrandur, near our faithful Hans-Bach and the grotto where I had
come back to life. Then, a few yards further on, the shape of the cliffs,
the appearance of a stream, the surprising outline of a rock made me
start doubting again.
I mentioned my hesitation to my uncle. He was wondering like me. He
was unable to find his way through this uniform vista.127
'We obviously didn't come back to the exact point we left from,' I said.
'But the storm must have brought us back to just below it, and by following
the coast, we'll reach Port Grauben again.'128
 125 Lartet: Edouard-A.-I.-H. (1801-71), French archaeologist, one of the
founders of palaeontology. In 1864 he discovered an ivory blade depicting a
mammoth in the Dordogne area.
126 considerations: this is the end of the main section of new text added in
the 1867 edition.
127 I. . . vista.: 1864 edition: 'The professor shared my hesitation; he was
unable to find his way in this uniform vista. I realized this from the occasional
words that he uttered.' 
'If that is true, then there seems no point in carrying on with this exploration,
and it is best to return to the raft. But are you absolutely sure,
Axel?'
'It's difficult to be definite, Uncle, for all the rocks look so similar. But
I think I remember the promontory where Hans built the raft. We must be
near the little harbour. And it may even be here,' I added, examining a
creek I thought I recognised.129
'But then we would at least have come across our own traces, and I
see nothing. . . '
'But I do!' I cried, springing towards an object glimmering on the
sand.
'What is it?'
'There!'
I showed my uncle the rust-covered knife I had picked up.
'Well, well!' he said. 'So you brought this weapon with you?'
'No, I didn't. But did you?'
'Not that I know; I have never had this thing on me.'
'It's most peculiar.'130
'It is quite simple. The Icelanders often carry weapons like this, and
Hans must be its owner, and have dropped it. . . '131
I shook my head. Hans had never had this knife on him.
'Is it then the weapon of some warrior from before the Flood,' I exclaimed,
'of a living human being, of a contemporary of that gigantic
shepherd? But it can't be! It isn't from the Stone Age! Not even the
Bronze Age! This blade is made of steel. . . '
My uncle stopped me dead on this track where a new diversion was
leading me, saying in his cold tone:
'Calm down, Axel, and use your head. This knife is from the sixteenth
century: it is an authentic dagger, like the ones that nobles used to carry
on their belts for giving the coup de grace. It is of Spanish manufacture.
It belongs neither to me, nor to you, nor to the hunter, nor even to the
human beings that may live in these bowels of the Earth!'132
'Do you mean. . . ?'
'Look, this blade has not become so notched by sinking into people's
throats; and it is covered in a layer of rust, more than a day thick, more
than a year, more than a century even.'
 128 'But. . . again.': 1864 edition: 'But certainly, by working our way along
the coast, we'll get near Port Grauben again.'
129 'It's. . . recognized.: this paragraph contains three very minor changes
from the 1864 edition.
130 most peculiar
131 'It. . . dropped it.. . .': this paragraph was ascribed to Axel rather than
Lidenbrock in the 1864 edition; and has also undergone four minor textual
changes.
132 nor even. . . the Earth!': these words were added in the 1867 edition.
From this point onwards, the two editions are identical, with the exception of one
punctuation mark changed in the sixth paragraph following. 
The professor, as usual, was getting excited as his imagination ran
away with him.
'Axel, we are on the path of a great discovery. This blade has been lying
on the sand for one, two, three hundred years, and it is scored because
it was used on the rocks of this subterranean sea!'
'But it couldn't have just arrived on its own. It couldn't have got
twisted by itself! Somebody must have got here before us!'
'Yes, a man.'
'Who?'
'The man who used this knife to engrave his name. His aim was once
more to mark the route to the centre with his own hand. Let's see if we
can find it!'
We excitedly worked our way along the high cliffs, looking for the
smallest clefts that might turn into a gallery.
We eventually came to a place where the shore got narrower. The sea
came nearly to the foot of the cliffs, leaving us at most two yards to pass.
Between two projecting rocks loomed the entrance of a dark tunnel.
There, on a slab of granite, two mysterious letters were carved, half
worn away: the twin initials of the bold and fantastic traveller:
'A. S.!' cried my uncle. 'Arne Saknussemm once again!'
40
Since the beginning of our journey I had been astonished many times;
I would have thought that I was immune to surprise and blase at any new
wonder. Nevertheless, at the sight of the two letters engraved on this
spot three centuries previously, I felt an amazement which came close to
stupor. Not only could the signature of the learned alchemist be read
clearly on the rock, but I had in my hand the stylus with which he had
traced it. Unless I was completely dishonest with myself, I could no longer
doubt the existence of the traveller or the truth of his journey.
While these thoughts whirled through my brain, Professor Lidenbrock
was indulging in a slightly excessive praise of Arne Saknussemm:
'O marvellous genius! You did everything to open up to other mortals
the way through the crust of the Earth, and now your comrades can follow
the traces your feet left in these dark underpasses three hundred
years ago! You intended these marvels to be contemplated by eyes other
than your own! Your name, engraved on the successive stages of the
route, leads the traveller bold enough to follow you straight to his goal,
and it will be found yet again at the very centre of our planet, once more
carved by your own hand! Well, I too intend to sign my name on this, the
last of the granite pages. But henceforth let this cape, first seen by you
on this sea first discovered by you, be known as Cape Saknussemm!'
This, or something like it, was what I heard, and I felt won over myself
by the enthusiasm conveyed in such words. An inner fire rekindled in
my breast. I forgot everything, even the dangers of the downward journey
and the perils of the return. What another had done I wished to do
too, and nothing that was human seemed impossible to me. 
'Forward, forward!'
I was already making my headlong way towards the dark gallery,
when I was stopped: the professor, the one who normally got carried
away, was recommending calm and patience.
'Let's first go and find Hans, and then bring the raft over here.'
I obeyed, not with any great pleasure; and slipped back between the
rocks on shore.
'Have you thought, Uncle?' I said as we walked. 'We've been very
lucky so far, haven't we?'
'Oh, do you think so?'
'Yes, even the storm helped put us on the right track again. Thank
God it happened! It brought us back to this coast which wouldn't have
happened if we'd had fine weather. Imagine for a moment that our prow
(in so far as a raft can be said to have a prow) had touched the southern
coastline of the Lidenbrock Sea, what would have become of us? We
wouldn't have seen Saknussemm's name, and we would now be washed
up on a shore that offered no way out!'
'Yes, Axel, there is something providential in the fact that, sailing
southwards, we should have come north and returned to Cape Saknussemm.
Indeed it seems to me more than astonishing, and there is
something here that I can't begin to explain.'
'Well it doesn't really matter. What counts is to make use of the facts,
not explain them!'
'No doubt, my boy, but. . . '
'But now we are about to head north again, passing under the countries
of Northern Europe, under Sweden, even under Siberia for all I
know! We're not going to plunge under the deserts of Africa or the breakers
of the ocean. That's all I need to know!'
'Yes, you are right. Everything is for the best, since we are going to
leave this horizontal sea which was taking us nowhere. Now we shall go
down, then further down, and then down again! Do you realise that we
have less than 3,900 miles left to cover?'
'Bah, hardly worth mentioning! Off we go, come on!'
This insane conversation was still continuing as we joined up again
with the hunter. Everything was ready for leaving immediately. All the
packages were on board the raft. We embarked, hoisted the sail, and
Hans steered us along the coast towards Cape Saknussemm.
The wind direction was not very favourable for a kind of vessel unable
to tack against it. As a result, quite often we had to use the iron-tipped
staves to move forward. The rocks, lurking under the surface, often
forced us into long detours. Finally, after three hours' navigation, at about
6 p.m., we reached a suitable spot for landing.
I sprang ashore, followed by my uncle and the Icelander. The crossing
had not calmed me down. I even suggested 'burning our boats' so as to
cut off all possibility of retreat. But my uncle disagreed. I found him singularly
half-hearted.
'At least let's set off without wasting a moment.' 
'Yes, my boy, but first we should have a look at this new gallery, to
decide whether we need to get the ladders ready.'
My uncle switched on his Ruhmkorff lamp. The raft, moored on the
shore, was left to its own devices. The mouth of the gallery was less than
twenty yards away, and our little expedition, with myself as leader,
headed for it without delay.
The opening, more or less round, was about five feet in diameter; the
dark tunnel was cut in the living rock, and had been carefully bored by
the eruptive substance that had passed through it; its floor was at the
same level as the ground, so that you could enter it without problem.
We were following an almost horizontal path when, after only about
twenty feet, our way forward was blocked by an enormous obstruction.
'Blasted rock!' I cried, seeing myself abruptly frustrated by an insuperable
obstacle.
In vain did we search to left and right, above and below: there was no
passage, no alternative path. I felt bitterly disappointed, and could not
accept that the barrier existed. I stooped down, and looked under the
massive block. Not even a crack. On top of it. The same granite barrier.
Hans shone the light from the lamp on every part of the wall-covering;
but it was perfectly continuous everywhere. Any hope of getting through
had to be given up.
I sat on the bare ground. My uncle was pacing up and down with great
strides.
'But what about Saknussemm?' I cried.
'Yes, was he stopped by a stone door?'
'No! This piece of rock must be there because of some earthquake or
other, or one of those magnetic phenomena that shake the Earth's crust.
The passage must have been suddenly closed off. A good many years
passed between Saknussemm's return and the fall of the rock. Isn't it obvious
that this gallery was formerly the route the lava took, and that the
eruption flowed freely along it? Look, there are recent cracks running
along this granite ceiling. The roof is made of pieces swept along, of
enormous boulders, as if the hand of some giant had laboured to build it.
But one day, the vertical pressure became too strong, and this block, like
the keystone of a vault, fell to the ground and blocked off the whole passage.
This is a chance obstacle that Saknussemm didn't meet, and if we
can't beat it, we don't deserve to get to the centre of the world!'
That was the way I spoke. The professor's entire soul had passed into
me. The spirit of discovery was arousing me. I forgot about the past, I
didn't care about the future. I had submerged myself in the bosom of that
spheroid, and nothing existed for me on its surface: not the towns or the
countryside, not Hamburg or Konigstrasse, not even my poor Grauben,
who must have thought that I was lost for ever in the bowels of the Earth!
'Come on,' said my uncle, 'using the pickaxes and ice-picks, let's force
our route, let's knock down these walls!'
'It's too hard for the pickaxes.'
'An ice-pick then.' 
'It's too deep for an ice-pick.'
'But. . . '
'Well then, the powder, an explosion! Let's mine the obstacle and blow
it up!'
'Blow it up?'
'Yes, it's only a bit of rock to break up!'
'Hans, to work!' shouted my uncle.
The Icelander went back to the raft, and soon returned with one of the
pickaxes, which he used to hollow out a cavity for the explosive. It was
not an easy task. He had to make a hole big enough to hold fifty pounds
of guncotton, whose explosive force is four times as great as gunpowder's.

I was in an extreme state of excitement. While Hans worked, I devotedly
helped my uncle to prepare a long fuse made of damp gunpowder
wrapped in a canvas tube.
'We'll get through!'
'We'll get through,' repeated my uncle.
At midnight, our work as miners was complete; the guncotton charge
was crammed into the hole in the rock, and the fuse unwound through
the gallery to the outside.
A spark was now enough to set off this imposing device.
'Till tomorrow then,' said the professor.
I had to resign myself to waiting for six long hours!
41
The following day, Thursday, 27 August, was an important one in our
underground journey. Every time that I think about it now, terror makes
my heart beat faster. From that moment on, our reason, our judgement,
our ingenuity were to have no influence at all on events: we were to become
the mere playthings of the Earth.
We were up by six. The time had come to use explosives to force a
way through the granite crust.
I requested the honour of lighting the fuse. Afterwards I would rejoin
my companions on the raft, which had not yet been unloaded; then we
would head out for the open sea, so as to reduce the danger from the explosion,
which could easily affect an area well beyond the outcrop. According
to our calculations, the fuse would burn for ten minutes before
setting off the powder chamber. So I had plenty of time to get back to the
raft. But it was not without a certain trepidation that I got ready to play
my part.
After a hurried breakfast, my uncle and the hunter went on board the
raft while I remained on shore. I was equipped with a lighted lantern for
setting off the fuse.
'It's time to go, Axel,' said my uncle, 'but do make sure you come
straight back afterwards.'
'Don't worry, I'm not going to hang around.' 
I made straight for the mouth. I opened the lantern and picked up the
end of the fuse. The professor had his chronometer in his hand.
'Ready?' he shouted.
'Ready.'
'Well fire away, my lad!'
I pushed the fuse quickly into the flame and it spluttered into life as I
sprinted back to the shore.
'Get on,' said my uncle, 'and we'll head out.'
With a forceful shove, Hans pushed us off. The raft moved forty yards
out. It was a tense moment. The professor was watching the hand of the
chronometer.
'Five more minutes. . . Four. . . Three. . . '
My heart beat every half-second.
'Two. . . One. . . Take that, O granite mountains!'
What happened next? I don't think I actually heard the noise of the
explosion. But the shapes of the rocks suddenly changed before my eyes:
they swung away like curtains. I glimpsed an unfathomable void hollowed
out from the very shore. The sea, seized with dizziness, had become
nothing but one immense wave on whose back the raft rose straight up.
The three of us were thrown down. Within a second, light had given
way to the most utter darkness. Then I felt the solid support disappearing,
not beneath my feet but under the raft itself. I thought for a moment
that it was sinking, but soon realised that it couldn't be. I tried to speak
to my uncle; but the bellowing of the waters stopped him from hearing
me.
Despite the darkness, the noise, the surprise, and the excitement, I
soon understood what had happened.
On the other side of the blown-up outcrop was an abyss. The explosion
had set off a sort of earthquake in the already shattered ground, a
chasm had opened up, and the sea, transformed into a great river, had
carried us down into it.
I thought we were lost.
One hour, two hours how could I tell? went by in this way. We
linked arms, we held each other's hands so as not to be thrown off the
raft. It jolted with great violence whenever it touched the side. Such collisions
were infrequent, however, and hence I deduced that the gallery was
getting considerably larger. There could be no doubt that this was Saknussemm's
route; but instead of following it on our own, our carelessness
had brought down an entire sea with us.
It will be understood that these ideas crossed my mind in indistinct
and murky form. Any association of ideas was difficult during this dizzy
descent, more like free-fall. To tell from the air whipping past my face,
the speed must have been greater than the fastest trains. Lighting a torch
would have been impossible in such conditions, and our last electrical apparatus
had been broken at the time of the explosion.
I was therefore quite surprised suddenly to see a light beside me.
Hans's calm face appeared. The adroit hunter had managed to light the 
lantern and although the flame flickered and almost went out, it threw
some rays into the awful blackness.
As I thought, the gallery was a wide one, for the light was not strong
enough to reveal both walls at the same time. The slope of the water
bearing us on was greater than that of the most insurmountable rapids in
America. Its surface was as if made up of sheafs of liquid arrows let loose
with total power: I cannot describe what I felt with any more precise
comparison. When the raft got caught in eddies, it was swept on while
turning slowly round. When it went near the walls of the gallery, I shone
the lantern on them, and got some idea of our speed from seeing the projections
of the rocks as continuous lines, so that we were hemmed in by a
network of moving streaks. I estimated our speed to be as much as fiftyfive
miles an hour.
My uncle and I looked at each other with wild eyes, leaning back on
the stump of the mast, which had broken in half during the catastrophe.
We faced away from the air so as to avoid being suffocated by the speed
of a motion that no human power could influence.
But the hours went by. The basic situation remained the same, even if
an incident arose to complicate it. While trying to put our cargo in some
kind of order, I discovered that most of the possessions on board had disappeared
when the sea had attacked us so violently at the time of the explosion.
I wished to know the exact position of our resources, so began a
search while holding up the lantern. Of our instruments only the compass
and chronometer remained. The ladders and ropes consisted of a mere
end of a cable coiled around the stump of the mast. Not a single pickaxe,
not an ice-pick, not a hammer and, worse still, food for only one more
day!
I searched amongst the cracks in the raft, in the smallest gaps between
the beams and the joints. Nothing! Our provisions amounted to one
piece of dried meat and a few dried biscuits.
I looked at them blankly, not wanting to understand. And yet what
was the danger I was worrying about? Even had the victuals been enough
for months or years, how could we get back out of the chasm that this inexorable
river was carrying us into? What was the point of worrying about
hunger-pains, when death was possible in so many other ways? Would we
not have plenty of time to die of inanition?
Nevertheless, by a mysterious trick of the mind, I forgot about the
immediate danger; for those of the future appeared to me in all their horror.
In any case, perhaps we could escape the river's fury and get back to
the globe's surface. How, I did not know. Where, didn't make any difference.
A chance in a thousand is still a chance, while death through starvation
left us no possibility of hope, not the least prospect.
I thought of telling my uncle everything, of showing him how few
things we had left, of calculating exactly how much time we still had to
live. But I had the strength to remain silent. I wanted him to retain all his
self-control. 
At this moment the lantern slowly dimmed, and then went out altogether.
The wick had burned through, and total blackness ensued. There
was no point in trying to reduce this impenetrable inkiness. We still had
one torch left, but it wouldn't have stayed alight. So, like a child, I closed
my eyes to shut out all the darkness.
After quite a long time, our speed got much faster, as I realised from
the battering of air on my face. The angle of the water got worse. We no
longer seemed to be sliding, but falling. I had the clear sensation of a
near-vertical drop. My uncle's and Hans's hands, clamped on my arms,
held firmly on to me.
After an indeterminate period, something like a sudden shock happened;
the raft hadn't collided with a hard object, but it had abruptly
stopped falling. A waterspout, a huge liquid column, crashed down over
the raft. I was suffocating. I was drowning. . .
However, this flood did not last long. After a few seconds, I found myself
gulping air down again. My uncle and Hans were gripping my arms as
if to break them; and the raft was still bearing the three of us on.
42
It must have been about 10 p.m. The first of my senses to start working
after the last attack was that of hearing. Almost straightaway I
heard and this was a definite event I heard silence falling in the gallery,
replacing the roaring which had been filling my ears for so many hours.
Words from my uncle finally reached me like a murmur:
'We're going up!'
'What do you mean?' I shouted.
'We're climbing! We're actually climbing!'
I stretched out my arm; I touched the wall; my hand got blood on it.
We were rising very fast.
'The torch, the torch!'
Hans finally managed to light it and the flame, burning upwards despite
our movement, spread enough light to reveal the scene.
'Exactly as I thought. We are in a narrow shaft, only thirty feet wide.
When the water reached the bottom of the chasm, it started coming back
up, taking us with it.'
'Where to?'
'I do not know, but we will have to be ready for any eventuality. I estimate
our speed to be thirteen feet per second, 780 feet per minute, or
more than fourteen miles per hour. At this rate, one can go places!'
'Yes, if nothing stops us and if the shaft has a way out. But if it's
blocked, if the air gets more and more compressed by the pressure from
the water column, we are about to be crushed to death!'
'Axel,' replied the professor very calmly. 'The situation is virtually
hopeless, but there exists a possibility of salvation, and it is that possibility
which I am examining. If we may die at any moment, we may also at
any moment be saved. Let us accordingly be ready to seize the slightest
opportunity.' 
'But what can be done?'
'Maintain our strength by eating.'
At these words I looked at my uncle distraught. I had not been able to
confess before, but now it had to be done:
'Eating?'
'Yes, without delay.'
The professor said a few words in Danish. Hans shook his head.
'What!' shouted my uncle. 'Has something happened to our food?'
'Yes, this is what is left: one piece of dried meat for the three of us!'
My uncle looked at me as if trying to understand my words.
'Well,' I said, 'do you still think we might be saved?'
My question received no answer. An hour passed. I began to feel a
violent hunger. My companions were suffering as well, but not one of us
dared touch the pathetic remains of the food.
We were still rising very fast. Sometimes the air stopped us breathing
properly, as it does with aeronauts who ascend too quickly. But while
aeronauts are subject to cold proportional to their height amongst the
layers of the atmosphere, we were undergoing the diametrically opposite
effect. The temperature was rising worryingly and had easily reached
40 C.
What did such a change mean? Until now Lidenbrock and Davy's theory
had been confirmed by the evidence; until now special conditions of
refracting rocks, of electricity, or of magnetism had modified the general
laws of nature, making the heat stay moderate. Given that the theory of a
central fire remained in my view the only correct one, the only justifiable
one, were we going to return to an environment where this phenomenon
held true, where the heat completely melted the rocks? I was afraid so,
and said to the professor:
'If we aren't drowned or torn to pieces, if we don't starve to death,
there's still the chance we might be burned alive.'
He merely shrugged his shoulders and returned to his thoughts.
An hour passed without anything happening apart from a slight increase
in the temperature. At last my uncle said something.
'Look,' he said, 'we must decide.'
'Decide?'
'Yes. We must keep up our strength. If we try to extend our lives for a
few more hours by eking out what is left of the food, then we will remain
weak until the end.'
'Yes, till the end, which isn't far off.'
'Well then! Should a chance of salvation occur, should action become
necessary, where will we find the strength to act if we let ourselves be
weakened by inanition?'
'But, Uncle, when we've eaten this piece of meat, what will we have
left?'
'Nothing, Axel, nothing. But will devouring it with your eyes give you
any more nourishment? Your arguments are those of a man with no will,
a being without energy!' 
'Then you've still not given up?' I shouted irritably.
'No!' he replied firmly.
'What! You still think we have a chance of being saved?'
'Yes, most certainly! And while his heart still beats, while his flesh still
moves, I cannot accept that a being endowed with will-power can give in
to despair.'
What words! The man who pronounced them in such circumstances
was clearly of no ordinary mettle.
'But what do you suggest?'
'We eat every last scrap of food and get our strength back. All right,
so this meal will be our last. But at least, instead of being exhausted, we
will be men again.'
'Well what are we waiting for!'
My uncle took the piece of meat and the few biscuits that had survived
the shipwreck, divided them into three equal parts, and handed them out.
This produced about a pound of food each. The professor ate hungrily,
with a sort of feverish abandon; myself without pleasure despite my hunger,
almost with disgust; Hans quietly, moderately, soundlessly chewing
small mouthfuls, savouring them with the calm of a man the problems of
the future cannot worry. By looking everywhere, he had found half a flask
of gin; he passed it over, and this beneficial liquid revived me slightly.
'Fortrafflig!' said Hans, drinking in turn.
'Excellent!' replied my uncle.
I had found some hope again. But we had just finished our last meal.
It was five in the morning.
Man is made in such a way that his health has a purely negative effect;
once his need to eat has been satisfied, he finds it difficult to imagine
the horrors of hunger; to understand them he has to experience
them. Consequently, after a long period without food, a few mouthfuls of
meat and biscuit overcame our previous gloom.
Afterwards, each of us was lost in his thoughts. What was Hans
dreaming about, this man from the extreme West, but ruled by the fatalistic
resignation of the East? For my part all my thoughts were memories,
bringing me back to that surface of the globe which I should never have
left. The house in Konigstrasse, my poor Grauben, Martha the maid,
passed before my eyes like visions; and in the sad rumblings coming
through the rocks, I thought I could hear the towns of this Earth.
As for my uncle, always the professional, he was holding up the torch
and carefully studying the nature of the formations; he was trying to discover
where we were from the successive strata. This calculation, or
rather estimation, could at best be highly approximate; but a scholar remains
a scholar, at least when he manages to retain his self-control and
Professor Lidenbrock certainly possessed this last quality to an extraordinary
degree.
I heard him murmuring words from the science of geology; I understood
them and could not help being interested in this final piece of work. 
'Eruptive granite,' he was saying. 'We're still in the Primitive Period;
but we're climbing, we're climbing! Who knows?'
Who knows? He had not given up hope. He touched the walls and a
few moments later continued:
'Gneiss, mica-schists. Good! We will soon be in the Transition Period,
and then. . . '
What did the professor mean? Could he measure the thickness of the
Earth's crust above our heads? Did he have a single justification for his
calculation? No; he had no manometer and no estimation could take its
place.
Meanwhile the temperature was increasing tremendously and I could
feel myself bathing in a burning atmosphere. I could only compare it to
the heat given off by the furnaces of a foundry when the metal is being
poured out. By degrees Hans, my uncle, and I had taken off our jackets
and waistcoats; the least garment caused us discomfort, even pain.
'Are we moving towards a fiery furnace?' I called out at a moment
when the heat was getting much worse.
'No,' replied my uncle, 'it is not possible! It is not possible!'
'All the same,' I said testing the wall, 'it feels burning hot!'
As I said these words, my hand touched the surface of the water but I
had to draw it back quickly.
'The water is boiling!' I exclaimed.
This time the professor replied only with an angry gesture.
An invincible terror then took hold of my mind and would not let go. I
felt that a catastrophe was soon going to happen, one that the most daring
of imaginations could not conceive. An idea that was at first vague
and doubtful slowly became a certainty in my mind. I rejected it, but it
came obstinately back, again and again.
I did not dare put it into words. But a number of involuntary observations
convinced me. In the flickering light from the torch, I noticed convulsions
in the granite strata; a phenomenon was clearly going to happen
in which electricity had a role; but this terrible heat, the boiling water. . .
I decided to look at the compass.
It had gone mad!
43
Yes, mad! The needle was jumping from one pole to the other with
sharp jerks, working its way through every point of the compass, spinning
as if completely dizzy.
I knew that, according to the generally accepted theories, the Earth's
mineral crust is never in a complete state of rest. The changes caused by
the decomposition of internal substances, the vibrations produced by the
larger sea currents, and the actions of the magnetic forces all tend to
shake it around constantly, although the creatures living on the surface
have no idea that it is moving. This phenomenon on its own, therefore,
would not specially have frightened me or at least would not normally
have produced a terrible suspicion. 
But further phenomena, sending clues unlike any others, could no
longer be ignored. Explosions were occurring with an increasing and
alarming intensity. I could only compare them with the sound of dozens of
carts being driven hard over cobblestones. Their thundering was continuous.

The compass, shaken madly around by the electrical phenomena, also
helped me make up my mind. The mineral crust was threatening to break
up, the granite masses to come together, the chasm to be plugged, the
void to be filled in and we, poor molecules, were going to be crushed in
the harrowing embrace that resulted!
'Uncle, Uncle! We've had it!'
'What is this new panic?' he answered surprisingly calmly. 'What is the
matter with you?'
'The matter? Look at the walls moving, this rock which is falling apart,
this scorching heat, this boiling water, this thickening steam, this crazy
needle: all signs of an impending earthquake!'
My uncle gently shook his head:
'An earthquake?'
'Yes.'
'I think, my boy, that you are mistaken.'
'What? Don't you realise that these symptoms. . . '
'. . . of an earthquake? No, I am expecting something better than
that!'
'What do you mean?'
'I'm hoping for an eruption, Axel.'
'An eruption! We can't possibly be in the vent of an active volcano,
can we?'
'I think we are,' said the professor, smiling. 'It is the best thing that
could have happened to us.'
The best thing? Had my uncle gone quite mad? What did his words
mean? How could he be so calm and happy?
'What?' I cried. 'We're in the middle of an eruption! Fate has placed us
in the path of red-hot lava, fiery rocks, boiling water, of all the substances
that are thrown up in eruptions! We are to be expelled, thrown out, rejected,
regurgitated, spat out into the air, in a whirlwind of flame, along
with huge amounts of rock and showers of ash and scoria! And that's the
best thing that could happen to us!'
'Yes,' said the professor, looking at me over the top of his glasses.
'For it is the only chance we have of getting back to the surface of the
Earth!'
I will skip the myriad ideas that intersected in my brain in that single
moment. My uncle was right, absolutely right; and never had he seemed
more fearless or more self-assured than at this moment, when calmly
waiting, calculating the chances of an eruption.
Meanwhile we had continued rising; the night went by without any
change; only the noise all around became louder and louder. I was almost
suffocating, I thought my last hour had come and yet, imagination being 
such a strange thing, I gave in to truly childish thoughts. But I couldn't
help my ideas: I had no control over them!
It was clear that we were being pushed upwards by the force of an
eruption; under the raft there was turbulent, boiling water, and under
that a whole sticky mass of lava, a huge conglomeration of rocks. When
they got to the top of the crater, they would be thrown out in all directions.
We were in the vent of a volcano. Of that there could be no doubt.
But this time, instead of the extinct Snaefells, we were dealing with a
volcano in full activity. I was wondering therefore what mountain it could
possibly be, and which part of the world we were going to be thrown out
on to.
Some northern region, of course. Before it had gone insane, the compass
had been consistently pointing in that direction. Since leaving Cape
Saknussemm, we had been swept due north for hundreds and hundreds
of miles. Were we underneath Iceland once more? Were we to be ejected
from the crater of Mount Hekla133 or one of the seven other volcanoes on
the island? Otherwise, within a radius of 1,200 miles and at that latitude,
I could only think of the little-known volcanoes on the north-west coast of
America. To the east, there was only one at less than 80N: Esk, in Jan
Mayen, not far from Spitzbergen.134 On the other hand, there was no
general lack of craters, and they all had plenty of room to spew out a
whole army. I tried to guess which one would serve as our exit.
Towards morning our ascent became still faster. The heat was increasing
rather than decreasing as we approached the surface of the globe:
this had to be a local effect, due to the influence of some volcano. No
longer could there be any doubt at all as to our means of transport. An
enormous force, a pressure of several hundred atmospheres produced by
the steam built up in the Earth's breast, was irresistibly thrusting up at
us. But how many terrible dangers would it expose us to?
Soon wild glowing lights shone on the walls of the vertical chimney,
which was now widening out. On either side I could see deep corridors,
like immense tunnels, sending forth thick steam and smoke, while
tongues of flame crackled and licked at the walls.
'Look, Uncle!'
'Yes, sulphur flames. Nothing could be more normal during an eruption.'

'But what if they come and attack us?'
'They won't.'
'And what if we suffocate?'
'We shan't. The shaft is getting wider. If necessary we can get off the
raft and take shelter in some fissure.'
'But the water, the water! Rising all the time!'
 133 Mount Hekla: near Myrdals-jokull, S. Iceland; famous throughout the
Middle Ages as a gateway to Hell. Major eruption in 1104.
134 Esk, in Jan Mayen, not far from Spitzbergen: in fact several hundred
miles away. The volcano on this island, which is extinct, does not seem to be
called Esk (whereas there is an Esk in Alaska). 
'There is no water left, Axel, just a viscous lava-stream which is lifting
us up on its way to the mouth of the crater.'
It was true that the water had disappeared, replaced by relatively
dense eruptive matter, which was boiling, however. The temperature was
becoming unbearable. A thermometer would have indicated more than
70  . I was bathed in sweat. But for the speed of the climb, we would certainly
have been suffocated.
The professor did not pursue his suggestion of leaving the raft, which
was perhaps just as well. Those few beams, roughly joined together, gave
us a solid base, which we wouldn't have had anywhere else.
Towards eight in the morning a new incident happened for the first
time. The upward movement stopped all of a sudden, with the raft remaining
absolutely motionless.
'What's happening?' I asked, shaken by this abrupt halt as if the raft
had hit something.
'An intermission.'
'Is the eruption slowing down?'
'I sincerely hope not.'
I stood up. I tried to look around. Perhaps the raft had caught against
a sticking-out rock and was momentarily holding back the flow of the
eruptive material. If so, it ought to be freed at once.
But this wasn't the case. The column of ashes, scoria, rocks, and debris
had itself stopped rising.
'Is the eruption stopping?'
'Ah!' said my uncle through clenched teeth. 'So that's what you are
worrying about, my boy. But don't fret; this can only be a temporary lull;
it has already lasted five minutes, and in a short while we shall be heading
towards the mouth of the crater once again.'
While speaking, the professor consulted his chronometer; and he was
soon proved right in this prediction too. The raft was once more caught up
in a rapid, disorderly flux, which lasted for about two minutes then
stopped again.
'Good,' said my uncle, noting the time. 'It will re-start in ten minutes.'
'Ten minutes?'
'Yes. We are dealing with a volcano whose eruption is periodic. It lets
us breathe when it does.'
He was absolutely correct. At the allotted time we were shot upwards
again with great speed: we had to cling on to the beams or we would
have been thrown off the raft. Then the thrust stopped once more.
Since that time, I have often thought about this remarkable phenomenon,
but without being able to find a satisfactory explanation for it.
Nevertheless, it seems clear to me that we can't have been in the principal
chimney of the volcano, but rather a side-passage, where there was
some sort of counter-effect.
How many times the process took place, I cannot say. All I can be certain
of is that, each time the movement was repeated, we were hurled
forward with increasing force, as if lifted by an actual projectile. During 
the pauses, we suffocated; when we were moving, the burning air took
my breath away. For a moment I thought of the ecstasy of suddenly finding
myself in the polar regions, at a temperature of -30  . In my overstimulated
imagination I wandered over the snowy plains of the Arctic icecap,
and longed for the moment when I could roll on the frozen carpet of
the Pole! But gradually my head, confused by the repeated shocks, gave
up working altogether.
 If it had not been for Hans's arms, my skull would have been flung
against the granite wall on more than one occasion.
As a consequence I have no clear memory of what happened during
the next few hours. I have a confused memory of endless blasts, of Earth
movements, of a swirling motion which grabbed hold of the raft. Our vessel
rose and fell on the waves of lava, amidst a rain of ashes. It was besieged
by roaring flames. An eager gale, as if coming from some immense
ventilator, added to the subterranean fires. One last time, Hans's face appeared
to me in the light from the blaze. My last thought was the horrifying
tragedy of the criminal fastened to the mouth of a cannon, at the
moment that the shot goes off and sends his arms and legs flying into the
air.
44
When I opened my eyes again, I felt the strong hand of the guide
clutching my belt. With the other he was holding on to my uncle. I was
not seriously injured, merely bruised and aching all over. I saw that I was
lying on the slope of a mountain, only a few feet away from a precipice
which I would have fallen into with the slightest movement. Hans had
clearly saved me from certain death while I was rolling down the flanks of
the crater.
'Where are we?' asked my uncle, who looked highly annoyed to be
back on Earth again.
The guide shrugged his shoulders as if to show he didn't know.
'In Iceland,' I ventured.
'Nej,' answered Hans.
'What does he mean, "no"?' cried the professor.
'He must be wrong,' I said, getting up.
After the many surprises of the journey, another was waiting for us. I
expected to see a cone covered with eternal snows, in the midst of the
arid deserts of the north, under the pale rays of the polar heavens, beyond
the furthest latitudes. But, contrary to what I had expected, my uncle,
the Icelander, and I were stretched out halfway up a mountain baked
by the heat of the sun, which was scorching us with its rays.
I wasn't prepared to believe my eyes; but the indisputable burning my
body was receiving brooked no reply. We had come out of the crater halfnaked,
and the radiant orb, of which we had asked nothing for two
months, was now bestowing on us floods of heat and light, was pouring
on to us waves of a splendid irradiation. 
When my eyes had adjusted to this unaccustomed dazzle, I used them
to make up for the failure of my imagination. At the very least, I was determined
to be in Spitzbergen I was not in the mood for giving up easily.
The professor found his voice first: 'It certainly doesn't look very much
like Iceland.'
'Jan Mayen?' I tried.
'Hardly, my boy. This is not a northern volcano with granite peaks and
a crown of snow.'
'And yet. . . '
'Just look, Axel, look!'
Above our heads, not more than five hundred feet away, was the crater
of the volcano. Every quarter of an hour there came flying from it a
tall column of flames mixed with pumice-stone, ashes, and lava, together
with a deafening explosion. I felt the whole mountain heave every time it
breathed, sending out, like a whale, fire and air through its enormous
blowholes. Below, on a steep slope, layers of eruptive material could be
seen stretching seven or eight hundred feet down, meaning that the volcano
couldn't be more than two thousand feet high. Its base was hidden
by a real basket of green trees, amongst which I distinguished olive and
fig trees, plus vines laden with purple grapes.
It didn't look much like the Arctic, I had to admit.
When one's gaze passed beyond the ring of greenery, it soon went
astray on the waters of an exquisite sea or lake, which made this enchanted
land an island only a few miles wide. On the eastern side appeared
a little port, with a few houses grouped round it and boats of an
unusual type rocking on the gentle swell of the turquoise ripples. Beyond,
clusters of small islets rose from the liquid plain, in such great numbers
as to resemble a huge antheap. In the west, rounded shores appeared on
the distant horizon; on some lay blue mountains of harmonious contours,
on others, still further away, appeared measureless cones, above whose
high summits floated plumes of smoke. To the north, a broad expanse of
water sparkled in the sun's rays, revealing here and there the top of a
mast or a convex sail swelling in the wind.
That such a panorama was totally unexpected made it infinitely more
wonderful and beautiful.
'Where can we be, oh where?' I murmured.
Hans shut his eyes in indifference, and my uncle stared uncomprehendingly.

'Whatever this mountain is,' he said at last, 'it is rather hot. The explosions
are still continuing, and it would really not be worth coming out
of an eruption, only to have one's head crushed by a falling rock. So let's
go down and discover what we're up against. Besides, I am dying of hunger
and thirst.'
The professor was certainly not a contemplative. For my part, I could
have stayed hours longer on that spot, forgetting all needs and fatigues 
but was obliged to follow my companions down. 
The slopes of the volcano proved very steep; we slipped into veritable
quicksands of ashes, avoiding the lava-streams winding down the sides
like fiery serpents. While we worked our way down, I talked a great deal,
for my imagination was too full not to go off in words.
'We're in Asia, on the coast of India, in the Malay Archipelago, or in
the middle of the South Seas! We have gone right across the Earth, and
come out at the antipodes!'
'And the compass?' asked my uncle.
'Oh, the compass,' I said with embarrassment. 'If we listened to what
it said, we would think we'd headed north all the time.'
'So it lied?'
'Lied? Not exactly.'
'Then this is the North Pole?'
'No, not actually the Pole, but. . . '
There was something that was indeed difficult to explain. I no longer
knew what to think.
Meanwhile we were getting near the greenery which had looked so inviting.
I was tormented by thirst and hunger. Fortunately, after two
hours' march, a beautiful countryside came into view, completely covered
with olive trees, pomegranates, and vines which seemed to belong to no
one in particular. Besides, in our beggarly state, we were not inclined to
be choosers. What ecstasy we felt pressing these delicious fruits to our
lips, and biting whole clusters off the purple vines! Not far off, amongst
the grass under the delicious shade of the trees, I found a spring of fresh
water. It was bliss to plunge our hands and faces into it.
While we were still enjoying a well-earned rest, a boy appeared between
two clumps of olives.
'So!' I cried. 'An inhabitant of this blessed country!'
He was a poor little creature, very badly clothed, rather sickly, and
apparently much alarmed by our appearance. In-deed, half-naked as we
were, with our untidy beards, we must certainly have presented a bizarre
spectacle: unless this was a country of robbers, we were likely to frighten
the natives.
Just as the urchin was about to run away, Hans darted after him and
brought him back, ignoring the kicks and screams.
My uncle began by calming him down as well as he could, and then
enquired in good German:
'What is the name of this mountain, my little friend?'
The child did not answer.
'Good,' said my uncle. 'We are not in Germany.'
He then asked the same question in English.
Still no answer. I followed the proceedings with great interest.
'Is he dumb?' cried the professor, who very proud of his multilingualism then
tried the same question in French.
Continuing silence.
'Let's try Italian then. Dove noi siamo?'
'Yes, where are we?' I repeated, slightly impatiently. 
The boy said nothing.
'Humph! Will you answer!' cried my uncle, who was getting annoyed
and shaking the urchin by the ears. 'Come si noma questa isola?'
'Stromboli,'135 answered the little shepherd-boy, escaping from Hans's
grasp and running through the olive trees towards the plain.
We weren't bothered about him! Stromboli! What an effect this unforeseen
name produced on my mind! We were in the middle of the Mediterranean,
surrounded by that Aeolian Archipelago136 of mythological
memory, in that ancient Strongyle where Aeolus held the winds and tempests
on a chain! And those rounded blue hills to the east were the mountains
of Calabria! And that volcano on the southern horizon was Etna, terrible
Etna itself!
'Stromboli, Stromboli!' I repeated.
My uncle accompanied me with words and gestures. We were like a
choir singing in unison.
O what a journey, what an amazing journey! We had gone in by one
volcano and out by another, and this other was nearly three thousand
miles from Snaefells, from the barren shores of Iceland and the outermost
limits of the world! The hazards of our expedition had brought us to the
heart of the most fortunate country on the globe! We had exchanged the
lands of eternal snows for those of infinite greenery; and the greyish fogs
of the freezing wastes above our heads had become the azure skies of
Sicily!
After a delightful meal of fruit and cool water, we set off again towards
the port of Stromboli. It did not seem advisable to say how we had arrived
on the island; with their superstitious mentality, the Italians would
certainly have thought us devils thrown up by the fires of Hell. We accordingly
resigned ourselves to being mere victims of shipwreck. It was less
glamorous, but safer.
On the way I heard my uncle murmuring:
'But what about the compass: it did point north! What can the reason
be?'
'Really,' I said, with an air of great disdain. 'It's much simpler not to
have to explain it!'
'What! A professor at the Johanneum would be disgraced if unable to
discover the reason for a phenomenon of the physical world!'
Thus speaking, my uncle, half-naked, with his leather purse around
his waist and settling his glasses on his nose, became once more the terrible
professor of mineralogy.
An hour after leaving the olive grove we arrived at the port of San
Vincenzo, where Hans asked for his thirteenth week's wages. These were
duly given him, together with heartfelt handshakes.
 135 Stromboli: the 'Strombolian' type of eruption involves moderate, intermittent
bursts of expanding gases.
136 Aeolian Archipelago: also known as the Eolie or Lipari Islands, off NE Sicily;
Strongyle: ('cone') Latin name for Stromboli; Aeolus: king of storms and
winds, inventor of sails. 
At that moment, even if he did not share our very natural feelings, he
at least gave in to a most unusual display of emotion.
He touched our hands lightly with the tips of his fingers, and he
smiled.
45
We have now come to the end of a tale which many people, however
determined to be surprised at nothing, will refuse to believe. But I am
armed in advance against human scepticism.
The Stromboli fishermen received us with the kindness due to those
who have undergone shipwreck. They provided food and clothing. On 31
August, after a wait of forty-eight hours, we were conveyed by a little
speronara137 to Messina, where a few days' rest helped us recover from
our fatigue.
On Friday, 4 September, we boarded the Volturne, one of the French
Imperial Postal Packet-Boats,138 and landed three days later in Marseilles,
our minds submerged in only one problem, that of the wretched compass.
This inexplicable fact continued to seriously bother me. On the evening of
9 September we arrived in Hamburg.
I will not attempt to describe Martha's amazement and Grauben's joy
at our return.
'Now that you're a hero, Axel,' said my dear fiancee, 'you will never
need to leave me again.'
I looked at her. She was weeping and smiling at the same time.
I leave to the imagination whether Professor Lidenbrock's homecoming
produced a sensation in Hamburg. Thanks to Martha's indiscretions,
the news of his departure for the centre of the Earth had spread through
the whole world. People had refused to believe it, and when he returned,
they still refused.
However, the presence of Hans and a few items of news from Iceland
slowly modified public opinion.
Eventually my uncle became a great man, and myself the nephew of a
great man, already something to be. Hamburg gave a civic banquet in our
honour. There was a public meeting held at the Johanneum, where the
professor told the story of our expedition, omitting only the episodes involving
the compass. The same day, he deposited Saknussemm's document
in the municipal archives, and expressed his deep regret that circumstances
stronger than his will had not allowed him to follow the footsteps
of the Icelandic explorer down to the very centre of the Earth. He
was modest in his glory, and it did his reputation a great deal of good.
So many honours made people jealous, of course. The professor received
his share of envy, and since his theories, based on facts that were
 137 speronara: a small rowing-boat.
138 Volturne: French for Volturno, a river in S. Central Italy; site of a victory
by Garibaldi in 1860; 'VoltuRNE' is also an anagram of 'Vern'; French Imperial
Postal Packet-Boats: one of the rare allusions in Verne's works to contemporary
political events: Napoleon III had been Emperor since 1852. 
certain, contradicted the scientific doctrines of fire in the centre, he engaged
in some remarkable debates with scientists of every country, both
in writing and in the flesh.
As for myself, I personally cannot accept the theory of the cooling of
the Earth. Despite what I have seen, I believe, and always will, in heat at
the centre. But I admit that circumstances which are still not properly explained
can sometimes modify this law under the effect of certain natural
phenomena.
At a moment when these questions were still being hotly discussed,
my uncle experienced a real sadness. In spite of his entreaties, Hans decided
to leave Hamburg; the man to whom we owed everything would not
let us repay our debt. He was suffering from homesickness for Iceland.
'Farval,' he said one day, and with this simple goodbye, he left for
Reykjavik, where he arrived safely.
We were singularly attached to the excellent eider-hunter; although
absent, he will never be forgotten by those whose lives he saved, and I
will certainly see him one last time before I die.
As a conclusion, I should perhaps say that this Journey to the Centre
of the Earth created a sensation in the whole world. It was translated and
published in every language: the most important newspapers competed
for the main episodes, which were reviewed, discussed, attacked, and defended
with equal fervour in the camps of both believers and unbelievers.
Un-usually, my uncle enjoyed during his lifetime all the fame he had won,
and everyone, up to and including Mr Barnum himself, offered to 'exhibit'
him in the entire United States, at an exceptional price.
But a worry, which might almost be called a torment, slipped into this
fame. A single fact remained unfathomable: that of the compass. Now for
a scientist an unexplained fact is mental torture. But Heaven intended my
uncle to be completely happy.
One day, while arranging a collection of minerals in his study, I noticed
the much-discussed compass, and began to examine it again.
It had been in its corner for six months, without suspecting the fuss it
was causing.
Suddenly I was flabbergasted! I shouted out. The professor came running.

'What is it?'
'The compass. . . '
'We-ell?'
'The needle points south not north!'
'What are you trying to say?'
'See, the poles are reversed!'
'Reversed?'
My uncle took a look, did a quick comparison, and then made the
whole house shake with a superb aerial leap.
What light shone in his mind and in mine! 
'So,' he cried when he could speak again, 'when we arrived at Cape
Saknussemm, the needle of this accursed compass showed south instead
of north?'
'Obviously.'
'Then our mistake is explained. But what could have caused this reversal
of the poles?'
'Nothing simpler.'
'Explain yourself clearly, my boy.'
'During the storm on the Lidenbrock Sea, the fireball magnetised the
iron on the raft and so quite simply disorientated our compass!'
'Oh!' exclaimed the professor, then burst out laughing. 'So it was all a
trick done by electricity?'
From that day onwards, my uncle was the happiest of scientists. I was
the happiest of men, for my pretty Virland girl, giving up her position as
ward, took on responsibilities in the house in Konigstrasse as both wife
and niece. There is little need to add that her uncle was the illustrious
Professor Otto Lidenbrock, a corresponding member of every scientific,
geographical, and mineralogical society in the five continents.
The End
 

Appendix

Verne as seen by the Critics

1. 'We have the good fortune to have to draw to our readers' attention
a new and charming book by M. Jules Verne. The [sic] Journey to the
Centre of the Earth, like Five Weeks in a Ballon and The British at the
North Pole [original title of the first half of Captain Hatteras], combines
the most solid scientific qualities with the amusement and interest of a
drama and a tale. Young people and people of the world ['les personnes
du monde'] will not find a more agreeable and excellent guide than M.
Verne to initiate them to geological discoveries and to the history, mysterious
and so little known, of the Earth's massif on which we live.' (Stahl
[pseudonym of Hetzel]: publicity announcement in the Magasin
d'education et de recreation).
 2. 'This fictional journey has all the colours and movement of reality;
and if the author had not taken the care to tell us himself, the illusion
would be almost too complete. M. Jules Verne is a true scientist, a delightful
story-teller and a writer of the greatest merit' (Gustave Landol,
1864).
 3. 'Journey to the Centre of the Earth is phantasmagoric; but the
reader is so caught up in Axel's anguish. . . that the improbability of the
events takes on secondary importance.. . . Interior and exterior adventures
are so closely interwoven that it is not until Axel has completed his
final test that we emerge from the fiction and begin to wonder where the
truth of the matter was. . . One feels that the book was Verne's escape.
. . into the world of dream, one that he was never to undertake
again on this scale' (Jean Jules-Verne, 1973, trans. by Roger Greaves).
 4. 'Lidenbrock conveys a new vision of space. What distinguishes two
points now is how close or how far they are from the centre.. . . The corresponding
map is a half-line, where points situated at the same distance
are indistinguishable. This accounts for Lidenbrock's behaviour, 'the man
of the perpendiculars', whose only wish is to 'slide down the Earth's radius',
and for whom the worst torture is to have to navigate on that interior
sea that we find so magnificent' (Dominique Lacaze, 1979).
 5. 'The particularity of the initiatory novel, when it is the work of a
great writer, is to be both realistic and symbolic. It is the adventure
novel, however, that best lends itself to this spiritual transformation, and
I have observed with astonishment that, while the great Romantic novels
have not been considered by the critics as initiatory works, those of Jules
Verne have. . . If Baudelaire is Poe's brother, Verne is his half-brother'
(Leon Cellier, 1964).
 6. '[Verne] recycles the literary ocean-depths: the Promethean challenge
of the terrestrial forces, the quest for the father. . . His scientists 
and explorers are nature's psychoanalysts. They unlock the ancient desires
of the sleeping elements. Electricity liberates the earthly powers.
And a scientific alchemy officiates at the perfect marriage between fire,
water, earth and air. The fantastic forms a bottomless pit. Verne gives
lessons in chasms.. . . More poetic than scientific, he leaves his dreams a
margin. His heroes don't land on the moon or reach the centre of the
Earth. His conquerors of the impossible maintain that distance which allows
the mysteries to be seen but not touched. He doesn't destroy our
myths' (J. Cabau, 1974).
 7. 'The volcano participates doubly in Verne's binary topology of
prominences and cavities: it is a hollow pyramid connecting the heavens
with the underground inferno; and it is a two-way sliproad onto the dual
carriageway of human traffic leading into and out of the Earth's core. . .
The Vernian law of reciprocity requires that not only should man urgently
plumb the depths of the planet, but that the Earth's core should equally
strain to escape from secrecy, burst through its fragile skin and so stand
revealed in the sight of men. . . The volcano is the entrance to an inverted
universe; and it preserves an imprint of that inversion, comprising
a portion of the subterranean world violently everted and solidified, the
abyss turned inside out by an explosion. Conversely, the outer world appears
to have slipped inwards. . . in the shape of a gigantic cavern,
equipped with its own Mediterranean and pseudo-firmament' (Andrew
Martin, 1985).
 8. 'There are these sparks. Science and suspense.. . . Say Ruhmkorff
lamp, gutta percha, Snaefells or guncotton, and something happens. In
the nineteenth century, the scholar-travellers of the unknown left on a
quest for the Holy Grail' (J.-F. Held).
 9. 'But if this detour, this journey belongs to the imaginary, there is
another, very real, trajectory: the thread of the tale. The novel becomes
itself through the journey. The two advance together. One can even argue
that the novel is the real aim: when he comes back, Axel publishes his
story. . . The book is both an imaginary Journey to the Centre of the
Earth and a real journey to the centre of the text' (Daniel Compere,
1977).
Some of these quotations were first cited by Simone Vierne, Jules Verne
(Balland (Phares), 1986), to whom grateful acknowledgements are recorded
here. 
