BOOK One

The young princess was as beautiful as daylight. She was more beautiful even than the queen herself.

One

Winter's toes had become ice cubes. They were as cold as space. As cold as the dark side of Luna. As cold as "... security feeds captured him entering the AR Central med clinic's sublevels at 23:00 U.T.C...."

Thaumaturge Aimery Park spoke with a serene, measured cadence, like a ballad. It was easy to lose track of what he was saying, easy to let all the words blur and conjoin. Winter curled her toes inside her thin soled shoes, afraid that if they got any colder before this trial was over, they would snap off.

"... was attempting to interfere with one of the shells currently stored..."

Snap off. One by one.

"... records indicate the shell child is the accused's son, taken on 29 July of last year. He is now fifteen months old."

Winter hid her hands in the folds of her gown. They were shaking again. She was always shaking these days. She squeezed her fingers to hold them still and pressed the bottoms of her feet into the hard floor. She struggled to bring the throne room into focus before it dissolved.

The throne room, in the central tower of the palace, had the most striking view in the city. From her seat, Winter could see Artemisia Lake mirroring the white palace and the city reaching for the edge of the enormous clear dome that sheltered them from the outside elements or lack thereof. The throne room itself extended past the walls of the tower, so that when one passed beyond the edge of the mosaic floor, they found themselves on a ledge of clear glass. Like standing on air, about to plummet into the depths of the crater lake.

To Winter's left she could make out the edges of her stepmother's fingernails as they dug into the arm of her throne, an imposing seat carved from white stone. Normally her stepmother was calm during these proceedings and would listen to the trials without a hint of emotion. Winter was used to seeing Levana's fingertips stroking the polished stone, not throttling it. But tension was high since Levana and her entourage had returned from Earth, and her stepmother had flown into even more rages than usual these past months.

Ever since that runaway Lunar that cyborg had escaped from her Earthen prison.

Ever since war had begun between Earth and Luna.

Ever since the queen's betrothed had been kidnapped, and Levana's chance to be crowned empress had been stolen from her.

The blue planet hung above the horizon, cut clean in half. Luna was a little more than halfway through the long night, and the city of Artemisia glowed with pale blue lampposts and glowing crystal windows, their reflections dancing across the lake's surface.

Winter missed the sun and its warmth. Their artificial days were never the same.

"How did he know about the shells?" Queen Levana asked. "Why did he not believe his son to have been killed at birth?"

Seated around the room in four tiered rows were the families. The queen's court. The nobles of Luna, granted favor with Her Majesty for their generations of loyalty, their extraordinary talents with the Lunar gift, or pure luck at having been born a citizen of the great city of Artemisia.

Then there was the man on his knees beside Thaumaturge Park. He had not been born lucky.

His hands were together, pleading. Winter wished she could tell him it wouldn't matter. All his begging would be for nothing. She thought there would be comfort in knowing there was nothing you could do to avoid death. Those who came before the queen having already accepted their fate seemed to have an easier time of it.

She looked down at her own hands, still clawed around her gauzy white skirt. Her fingers had been bitten with frost. It was sort of pretty. Glistening and shimmering and cold, so very cold ...

"Your queen asked you a question," said Aimery.

Winter flinched, as if he'd been yelling at her.

Focus. She must try to focus.

She lifted her head and inhaled.

Aimery was wearing white now, having replaced Sybil Mira as the queen's head thaumaturge. The gold embroidery on his coat shimmered as he circled the captive.

"I am sorry, Your Majesty," the man said. "My family and I have served you for generations. I'm a janitor at that med clinic and I'd heard rumors ... It was none of my business, so I never cared, I never listened. But ... when my son was born a shell..." He whimpered. "He is my son."

"Did you not think," said Levana, her voice loud and crisp, "there might be a reason your queen has chosen to keep your son and all the other ungifted Lunars separate from our citizens? That we may have a purpose that serves the good of all our people by containing them as we have?"

The man gulped hard enough that Winter could see his Adam's apple bobbing. "I know, My Queen. I know you use their blood for ... experimentation. But ... but you have so many, and he's only a baby, and..."

"Not only is his blood valuable to the success of our political alliances, the likes of which I cannot expect a janitor from the outer sectors to understand, but he is also a shell, and his kind have proven themselves to be dangerous and untrustworthy, as you will recall from the assassinations of King Marrok and Queen Jannali eighteen years ago. Yet you would subject our society to this threat?"

The man's eyes were wild with fear. "Threat, My Queen? He is a baby." He paused. He did not look outright rebellious, but his lack of remorse would be sending Levana into a fury soon enough. "And the others in those tanks ... so many of them, children. Innocent children."

The room chilled.

He knew too much. The shell infanticide had been in place since the rule of Levana's sister, Queen Channary, after a shell sneaked into the palace and killed their parents. No one would be pleased to know their babies had not been killed at all, but instead locked away and used as tiny blood platelet manufacturing plants.

Winter blinked, imagining her own body as a blood platelet manufacturing plant.

Her gaze dropped again. The ice had extended to her wrists now.

That would not be beneficial for the platelet conveyor belts.

"Does the accused have a family?" asked the queen.

Aimery bobbed his head. "Records indicate a daughter, age nine. He also has two sisters and a nephew. All live in Sector GM 12."

"No wife?"

"Dead five months past of regolith poisoning."

The prisoner watched the queen, desperation pooling around his knees.

The court began to stir, their vibrant clothes fluttering. This trial had gone on too long. They were growing bored.

Levana leaned against the back of her throne. "You are hereby found guilty of trespassing and attempted theft against the crown. This crime is punishable by immediate death."

The man shuddered, but his face remained pleading. It always took them a few seconds to comprehend such a sentence.

"Your family members will each receive a dozen public lashings as a reminder to your sector that I do not tolerate my decisions being questioned."

The man's jaw slackened.

"Your daughter will be given as a gift to one of the court's families. There, she will be taught the obedience and humility one can assume she has not learned beneath your tutelage."

"No, please. Let her live with her aunts. She hasn't done anything!"

"Aimery, you may proceed."

"Please!"

"Your queen has spoken," said Thaumaturge Aimery. "Her word is final."

Aimery drew an obsidian knife from one of his bell shaped sleeves and held the handle toward the prisoner, whose eyes had gone wide with hysteria.

The room grew colder. Winter's breath crystallized in the air. She squeezed her arms tight against her body.

The prisoner took the knife handle. His hand was steady. The rest of him was trembling.

"Please. My little girl I'm all she has. Please. My Queen. Your Majesty!"

He raised the blade to his throat.

This was when Winter looked away. When she always looked away. She watched her own fingers burrow into her dress, her fingernails scraping at the fabric until she could feel the sting on her thighs. She watched the ice climb over her wrists, toward her elbows. Where the ice touched, her flesh went numb.

She imagined lashing out at the queen with those ice solid fists. She imagined her hands shattering into a thousand icicle shards.

It was at her shoulders now. Her neck.

Even over the popping and cracking of the ice, she heard the cut of flesh. The burble of blood and a muffled gag. The hard slump of the body.

The cold had stolen into her chest. She squeezed her eyes shut, reminding herself to be calm, to breathe. She could hear Jacin's steady voice in her head, his hands gripping her shoulders. It isn't real, Princess. It's only an illusion.

Usually they helped, these memories of him coaxing her through the panic. But this time it seemed to prompt the ice on. Encompassing her rib cage. Gnawing into her stomach. Hardening over her heart.

She was freezing from the inside out.

Listen to my voice.

Jacin wasn't there.

Stay with me.

Jacin was gone.

It's all in your head.

She heard the clomping of the guards' boots as they approached the body. The corpse being slid toward the ledge. The shove and the distant splash below.

The court applauded with quiet politeness.

Winter heard her toes snap off. One. By. One.

"Very good," said Queen Levana. "Thaumaturge Tavaler, see to it that the rest of the sentencing is carried out."

The ice was in her throat now, climbing up her jaw. There were tears freezing inside their ducts. There was saliva crystallizing on her tongue.

She raised her head as a servant began washing the blood from the tiles. Aimery, rubbing his knife with a cloth, met Winter's gaze. His smile was searing. "I am afraid the princess has no stomach for these proceedings."

The nobles in the audience tittered Winter's disgust of the trials was a source of merriment to most of Levana's court.

The queen turned, but Winter couldn't look up. She was a girl made of ice and glass. Her teeth were brittle, her lungs too easily shattered.

"Yes," said Levana. "I often forget she's here at all. You're about as useless as a rag doll, aren't you, Winter?"

The audience chuckled again, louder now, as if the queen had given permission to mock the young princess. But Winter couldn't respond, not to the queen, not to the laughter. She kept her focus on the thaumaturge, trying to hide her panic.

"Oh, no, she isn't quite as useless as that," Aimery said. As Winter stared, a thin crimson line drew itself across his throat, blood bubbling up from the wound. "The prettiest girl on all of Luna? She will make some member of this court a happy bride someday, I should think."

"The prettiest girl, Aimery?" Levana's light tone almost concealed the snarl beneath.

Aimery slipped into a bow. "Prettiest only, My Queen. But no mortal could compare with your perfection."

The court was quick to agree, offering a hundred compliments at once, though Winter still felt the leering gazes of more than one noble attached to her.

Aimery took a step toward the throne and his severed head tipped off, thunking against the marble and rolling, rolling, rolling, until it stopped at Winter's frozen feet.

Still smiling.

She whimpered, but the sound was buried beneath the snow in her throat.

It's all in your head.

"Silence," said Levana, once she'd had her share of praise. "Are we finished?"

Finally, the ice found her eyes and Winter had no choice but to shut them against Aimery's headless apparition, enclosing herself in cold and darkness.

She would die here and not complain. She would be buried beneath this avalanche of lifelessness. She would never have to witness another murder again.

"There is one more prisoner still to be tried, My Queen." Aimery's voice echoed in the cold hollowness of Winter's head. "Sir Jacin Clay, royal guard, pilot, and assigned protector of Thaumaturge Sybil Mira."

Winter gasped and the ice shattered, a million sharp glittering bits exploding across the throne room and skidding across the floor. No one else heard them. No one else noticed.

Aimery, head very much attached, was watching her again, as if he'd been waiting to see her reaction. His smirk was subtle as he returned his attention to the queen.

"Ah, yes," said Levana. "Bring him in."

Two

The doors to the throne room opened, and there he was, trapped between two guards, his wrists corded behind his back. His blond hair was clumped and matted, strands of it clinging to his jaw. It appeared to have been a fair while since he'd last showered, but Winter could detect no obvious signs of abuse.

Her stomach flipped. All the warmth the ice had sucked out of her came rushing back to the surface of her skin.

Stay with me, Princess. Listen to my voice, Princess.

He was led to the center of the room, devoid of expression. Winter jabbed her fingernails into her palms.

Jacin didn't look at her. Not once.

"Jacin Clay," said Aimery, "you have been charged with betraying the crown by failing to protect Thaumaturge Mira and by failing to apprehend a known Lunar fugitive despite nearly two weeks spent in said fugitive's company. You are a traitor to Luna and to our queen. These crimes are punishable by death. What have you to say in your defense?"

Winter's heart thundered like a drum against her ribs. She turned pleading eyes up to her stepmother, but Levana was not paying her any attention.

"I plead guilty to all stated crimes," said Jacin, drawing Winter's attention back, "except for the accusation that I am a traitor."

Levana's fingernails fluttered against the arm of her throne. "Explain."

Jacin stood as tall and stalwart as if he were in uniform, as if he were on duty, not on trial. "As I've said before, I did not apprehend the fugitive while in her company because I was attempting to convince her I could be trusted, in order to gather information for my queen."

"Ah, yes, you were spying on her and her companions," said Levana. "I do recall that excuse from when you were captured. I also recall that you had no pertinent information to give me, only lies."

"Not lies, My Queen, though I will admit I underestimated the cyborg and her abilities. She was disguising them from me."

"So much for earning her trust." There was mocking in the queen's tone.

"Knowledge of the cyborg's skills was not the only information I sought, My Queen."

"I suggest you stop playing with words. My patience with you is already thin."

Winter's heart shriveled. Not Jacin. She could not sit here and watch them kill Jacin.

She would bargain for him, she decided, though the plan came with a flaw. What did she have to bargain with? Nothing but her own life, and Levana would not accept that.

She could throw a fit. Go into hysterics. It would hardly be a stretch from the truth at this point, and it might distract them for a time, but it would only delay the inevitable.

She had felt helpless many times in her life, but never like this.

Only one thing to be done, then. She would throw her own body in front of the blade.

Oh, Jacin would hate that.

Ignorant of Winter's newest resolve, Jacin respectfully inclined his head. "During my time with Linh Cinder, I uncovered information about a device that can nullify the effects of the Lunar gift when connected to a person's nervous system."

This caused a curious squirm through the crowd. A stiffening of spines, a tilting forward of shoulders.

"Impossible," said Levana.

"Linh Cinder had evidence of its potential. As it was described to me, on an Earthen, the device will keep their bioelectricity from being tampered with. But on a Lunar, it will prevent them from using their gift at all. Linh Cinder herself had the device installed when she arrived at the Commonwealth ball. Only when it was destroyed was she able to use her gift as was evidenced with your own eyes, My Queen."

His words carried an air of impertinence. Levana's knuckles turned white.

"How many of these hypothetical devices exist?"

"To my knowledge, only the broken device installed in the cyborg herself. But I suspect there still exist patents or blueprints. The inventor was Linh Cinder's adoptive father."

The queen's grip began to relax. "This is intriguing information, Sir Clay. But it speaks more of a desperate attempt to save yourself than true innocence."

Jacin shrugged, nonchalant. "If my loyalty cannot be seen in how I conducted myself with the enemy, obtaining this information and alerting Thaumaturge Mira to the plot to kidnap Emperor Kaito, I don't know what other evidence I can provide for you, My Queen."

"Yes, yes, the anonymous tip Sybil received, alerting her to Linh Cinder's plans." Levana sighed. "I find it very convenient that this comm you claim to have sent was seen by no one other than Sybil herself, who is now dead."

For the first time, Jacin looked off balance beneath the queen's glare. He still had not looked at Winter.

The queen turned to Jerrico Solis, her captain of the guard. Like so many of the queen's guards, Jerrico made Winter uncomfortable, and she often had visions of his orange red hair going up in flames and the rest of him burning down to a smoldering coal. "You were with Sybil when she ambushed the enemy's ship that day, yet you said before that Sybil had mentioned no such comm. Have you anything to add?"

Jerrico took a step forward. He had returned from their Earthen excursion with a fair share of bruises, but they had begun to fade. "My Queen, Thaumaturge Mira seemed confident we would find Linh Cinder on that rooftop, but she did not mention receiving any outside information anonymous or otherwise. When the ship landed, it was Thaumaturge Mira who ordered Jacin Clay to be taken into custody."

Jacin's eyebrow twitched. "Perhaps she was still upset that I shot her." He paused, before adding, "While under Linh Cinder's control, in my defense."

"You seem to have plenty to say in your defense," said Levana.

Jacin didn't respond. It was the calmest Winter had ever seen a prisoner he, who knew better than anyone the horrible things that happened on this floor, in the very spot where he stood. Levana should have been infuriated by his audacity, but she seemed merely thoughtful.

"Permission to speak, My Queen?"

The crowd rustled and it took a moment for Winter to discern who had spoken. It was a guard. One of the silent ornamentations of the palace. Though she recognized him, she didn't know his name.

Levana glowered at him, and Winter imagined her calculating whether to grant the permission or punish the man for speaking out of turn. Finally, she said, "What is your name, and why do you dare interrupt these proceedings?"

The guard stepped forward, staring at the wall, always at the wall. "My name is Liam Kinney, My Queen. I assisted with the retrieval of Thaumaturge Mira's body."

A questioning eyebrow to Jerrico; a confirming nod received. "Go on," said Levana.

"Mistress Mira was in possession of a portscreen when we found her, and though it was broken in the fall, it was still submitted as evidence in the case of her murder. I wonder if anyone has attempted to retrieve the alleged comm."

Levana turned her attention back to Aimery, whose face was a mask that Winter recognized. The more pleasant his expression, the more annoyed he was. "In fact, we did manage to access her recent communications. I was about to bring forward the evidence."

It was a lie, which gave Winter hope. Aimery was a great liar, especially when it was in his best interests. And he hated Jacin. He would not want to give up anything that could help him.

Hope. Frail, flimsy, pathetic hope.

Aimery gestured toward the door and a servant scurried forward, carrying a shattered portscreen and a holograph node on a tray. "This is the portscreen Sir Kinney mentioned. Our investigation has confirmed that there was, indeed, an anonymous comm sent to Sybil Mira that day."

The servant turned on the node and a holograph shimmered into the center of the room behind it, Jacin faded away like a phantom.

The holograph displayed a basic text comm.

Linh Cinder plotting to kidnap EC emperor.

Escape planned from north tower rooftop, sunset.

So much importance pressed into so few words. It was just like Jacin.

Levana read the words with narrowed eyes. "Thank you, Sir Kinney, for bringing this to our attention." It was telling that she did not thank Aimery.

The guard, Kinney, bowed and stepped back into position. His gaze flickered once to Winter, unreadable, before attaching again to the far wall.

Levana continued, "I suppose you will tell me, Sir Clay, that this was the comm you sent."

"It was."

"Have you anything else to add before I make my verdict?"

"Nothing, My Queen."

Levana leaned back in her throne and the room hushed, everyone awaiting the queen's decision.

"I trust my stepdaughter would like me to spare you."

Jacin didn't react, but Winter winced at the haughtiness in her stepmother's tone. "Please, Stepmother," she whispered, the words clumping on her dry tongue. "It's Jacin. He is not our enemy."

"Not yours, perhaps," Levana said. "But you are a naive, stupid girl."

"That is not so. I am a factory for blood and platelets, and all my machinery is freezing over..."

The court burst into laughter, and Winter recoiled. Even Levana's lips twitched, though there was annoyance beneath her amusement.

"I have made my decision," she said, her booming voice demanding silence. "I have decided to let the prisoner live."

Winter released a cry of relief. She clapped a hand over her mouth, but it was too late to stifle the noise.

There were more giggles from the audience.

"Have you any other insights to add, Princess?" Levana said through her teeth.

Winter gathered her emotions as well as she could. "No, My Queen. Your rulings are always wise and final, My Queen."

"This ruling is not finished." The queen's voice hardened as she addressed Jacin again. "Your inability to kill or capture Linh Cinder will not go unpunished, as your incompetence led to her successful kidnapping of my betrothed. For this crime, I sentence you to thirty self inflicted lashings to be held on the central dais, followed by forty hours of penance. Your sentence shall commence at tomorrow's light break."

Winter flinched, but even this punishment could not destroy the fluttery relief in her stomach. He was not going to die. She was not a girl of ice and glass at all, but a girl of sunshine and stardust, because Jacin wasn't going to die.

"And, Winter..."

She jerked her attention back to her stepmother, who was eyeing her with disdain. "If you attempt to bring him food, I will have his tongue removed in payment for your kindness."

She shrank back into her chair, a tiny ray of her sunshine extinguished. "Yes, My Queen."

Three

Winter was awake hours before light brightened the dome's artificial sky, having hardly slept. She did not go to watch Jacin receive his lashings, knowing that if he saw her, he would have kept himself from screaming in pain. She wouldn't do that to him. Let him scream. He was still stronger than any of them.

She dutifully nibbled at the cured meats and cheeses brought for her breakfast. She allowed the servants to bathe her and dress her in pale pink silk. She sat through an entire session with Master Gertman, a third tier thaumaturge and her long standing tutor, pretending to try to use her gift and apologizing when it was too hard, when she was too weak. He did not seem to mind. Anyway, he spent most of their sessions gazing slack jawed at her face, and Winter didn't know if he would be able to tell if she really did glamour him for once.

The artificial day had come and gone; one of the maidservants had brought her a mug of warmed milk and cinnamon and turned down her bed, and finally Winter was left alone.

Her heart pounded with anticipation.

She slipped into a pair of lightweight linen pants and a loose top, then pulled on her night robe so it would look like she was wearing her bedclothes underneath. She had thought of this all day, the plan taking form in her mind, like tiny puzzle pieces snapping together. Willful determination had stifled any hallucinations.

She fluffed her hair to look as if she'd woken from a deep slumber, turned off the lights, and climbed up onto her bed. The dangling chandelier clipped her brow and she flinched, stepping back and catching her balance on the thick mattress.

Winter braced herself with a breath full of intentions.

Counted to three.

And screamed.

She screamed like an assassin was driving a knife into her stomach.

She screamed like a thousand birds were pecking at her flesh.

She screamed like the palace was burning down around her.

The guard stationed outside her door burst inside, weapon drawn. Winter went on screaming. Stumbling back over her pillows, she pressed her back against the headboard and clawed at her hair.

"Princess! What is it? What's wrong?" His eyes darted around the dark room, searching for an intruder, a threat.

Flailing an arm behind her, Winter scratched at the wallpaper, tearing off a shred. It was becoming easier to believe she was horrified. There were phantoms and murderers closing in around her.

"Princess!" A second guard burst into the room. He flipped on the light and Winter ducked away from it. "What's going on?"

"I don't know." The first guard had crossed to the other side of the room and was checking behind the window drapes.

"Monster!" Winter shrieked, bulleting the statement with a sob. "I woke up and he was standing over my bed one of one of the queen's soldiers!"

The guards traded looks and the silent message was clear, even to Winter.

Nothing's wrong. She's just crazy.

"Your Highness " started the second guard, as a third appeared at the doorway.

Good. There were only three guards regularly stationed in this corridor between her bedroom and the main stairway.

"He went that way!" Cowering behind one arm, Winter pointed toward her dressing closet. "Please. Please don't let him get away. Please find him!"

"What's happened?" asked the newcomer.

"She thinks she saw one of the mutant soldiers," grumbled the second guard.

"He was here," she screamed, the words tearing at her throat. "Why aren't you protecting me? Why are you standing there? Go find him!"

The first guard looked annoyed, as if this charade had interrupted something more than standing in the hallway and staring at a wall. He holstered his gun, but said, with authority, "Of course, Princess. We will find this perpetrator and ensure your safety." He beckoned the second guard and the two of them stalked off toward the closet.

Winter turned to the third guard and fell into a crouch. "You must go with them," she urged, her voice fluttery and weak. "He is a monster enormous with ferocious teeth and claws that will tear them to shreds. They can't defeat him alone, and if they fail !" Her words turned into a wail of terror. "He'll come for me, and there will be no one to stop him. No one will save me!" She pulled at her hair, her entire body quivering.

"All right, all right. Of course, Highness. Just wait here, and ... try to calm yourself." Looking grateful to leave the mad princess behind, he took off after his comrades.

No sooner had he disappeared did Winter slip off the bed and shrug out of her robe, leaving it draped over a chair.

"The closet is clear!" one of the guards yelled.

"Keep looking!" she yelled back. "I know he's in there!"

Snatching up the simple hat and shoes she'd left by the door, she fled.

Unlike her personal guards, who would have questioned her endlessly and insisted on escorting her into the city, the guards who were manning the towers outside the palace hardly stirred when she asked for the gate to be opened. Without guards and fine dresses, and with her bushel of hair tucked up and her face tucked down, she could pass for a servant in the shadows.

As soon as she was outside the gate, she started to run.

There were aristocrats milling around the tiled city streets, laughing and flirting in their fine clothes and glamours. Light spilled from open doorways, music danced along the window ledges, and everywhere was the smell of food and the clink of glasses and shadows kissing and sighing in darkened alleyways.

It was like this always in the city. The frivolity, the pleasure. The white city of Artemisia their own little paradise beneath the protective glass.

At the center of it all was the dais, a circular platform where dramas were performed and auctions held, where spectacles of illusion and bawdy humor often drew the families from their mansions for a night of revelry.

Public humiliations and punishments were frequently on the docket.

Winter was panting, both frazzled and giddy with her success, as the dais came into view. She spotted him and the yearning inside her weakened her knees. She had to slow to catch her breath.

He was sitting with his back to the enormous sundial at the center of the dais, an instrument as useless as it was striking during these long nights. Ropes bound his bare arms and his chin was collapsed against his collarbone, pale hair hiding his face. As Winter neared him, she could see the raised hash marks of the lashings across his chest and abdomen, scattered with dried blood. There would be more on his back. His hand would be blistered from gripping the lash. Self inflicted, Levana had proclaimed the punishment, but everyone knew Jacin would be under the control of a thaumaturge. There was nothing self inflicted about it.

Aimery, she heard, had volunteered for the task. He had probably relished every wound.

Jacin raised his head as she reached the edge of the dais. Their eyes clashed, and she was staring at a man who had been beaten and bound and mocked and tormented all day and for a moment she was sure he was broken. Another one of the queen's broken toys.

But then one side of his mouth lifted, and the smile hit his startling blue eyes, and he was as bright and welcoming as the rising sun.

"Hey, Trouble," he said, leaning his head back against the dial.

With that, the terror from the past weeks slipped away. He was alive. He was home. He was still Jacin.

She pulled herself onto the dais. "Do you have any idea how worried I've been?" she said, crossing to him. "I didn't know if you were dead or being held hostage, or if you'd been eaten by one of the queen's soldiers. It's been driving me mad not knowing."

He quirked an eyebrow at her.

She scowled. "Don't comment on that."

"I wouldn't dare." He rolled his shoulders as much as he could against his bindings. His wounds gapped and puckered with the movement and his face contorted in pain, but it was brief.

Pretending she hadn't noticed, Winter sat cross legged in front of him, inspecting the wounds. Wanting to touch him. Terrified to touch him. That much, at least, had not changed. "Does it hurt very much?"

"Better than being at the bottom of the lake." His smile turned wry, lips chapped. "They'll move me to a suspension tank tomorrow night. Half a day and I'll be good as new." He squinted. "That's assuming you're not here to bring me food. I'd like to keep my tongue where it is, thank you."

"No food. Just a friendly face."

"Friendly." His gaze raked over her, his relaxed grin still in place. "That's an understatement."

She dipped her head, turning away to hide the three scars on her right cheek. For years, Winter had assumed that when people stared at her, it was because the scars disgusted them. A rare disfigurement in their world of perfection. But then a maid told her they weren't disgusted, they were in awe. She said the scars made Winter interesting to look at and somehow, odd as it was, even more beautiful. Beautiful. It was a word Winter had heard tossed around all her life. A beautiful child, a beautiful girl, a beautiful young lady, so beautiful, too beautiful ... and the stares that attended the word never ceased to make her want to don a veil like her stepmother's and hide from the whispers.

Jacin was the one person who could make her feel beautiful without it seeming like a bad thing. She couldn't recall him ever using the word, or giving her any compliments, for that matter. They were always hidden behind careless jokes that made her heart pound.

"Don't tease," she said, flustered at the way he looked at her, at the way he always looked at her.

"Wasn't teasing," he said, all nonchalance.

In response, Winter reached out and punched him on the shoulder.

He flinched, and she gasped, remembering his wounds. But Jacin's chuckle was warm. "That's not a fair fight, Princess."

She reeled back the budding apology. "It's about time I had the advantage."

He glanced past her, into the streets. "Where's your guard?"

"I left him behind. Searching for a monster in my closet."

The sunshine smile hardened into exasperation. "Princess, you can't go out alone. If something happened to you "

"Who's going to hurt me here, in the city? Everyone knows who I am."

"It just takes one idiot, too used to getting what he wants and too drunk to control himself."

She flushed and clenched her jaw.

Jacin frowned, immediately regretful. "Princess "

"I'll run all the way back to the palace. I'll be fine."

He sighed, and she listed her head, wishing she'd brought some sort of medicinal salve for his cuts. Levana hadn't said anything about medicine, and the sight of him tied up and vulnerable and shirtless, even if it was a bloodied shirtless was making her fingers twitch in odd ways.

"I wanted to be alone with you," she said, focusing on his face. "We never get to be alone anymore."

"It's not proper for seventeen year old princesses to be alone with young men who have questionable intentions."

She laughed. "And what about young men who she's been best friends with since before she could walk?"

He shook his head. "Those are the worst."

She snorted an actual snort of laughter that served to brighten Jacin's face again.

But the humor was bittersweet. The truth was, Jacin touched her only when he was helping her through a hallucination. Otherwise, he hadn't deliberately touched her in years. Not since she was fourteen and he was sixteen, and she'd tried to teach him the Eclipse Waltz with somewhat embarrassing results.

These days, she would have auctioned off the Milky Way to make his intentions a little less honorable.

Her smile started to fizzle. "I've missed you," she said.

His gaze dropped away and he shifted in an attempt to get more comfortable against the dial. Locking his jaw so she wouldn't see how much every tiny movement pained him. "How's your head?" he asked.

"The visions come and go," she said, "but they don't seem to be getting worse."

"Have you had one today?"

She picked at a small, natural flaw in the linen of her pants, thinking back. "No, not since the trials yesterday. I turned into a girl of icicles, and Aimery lost his head. Literally."

"Wouldn't mind if that last one came true."

She shushed him.

"I mean it. I don't like how he looks at you."

Winter glanced over her shoulder, but the courtyards surrounding the dais were empty. Only the distant bustle of music and laughter reminded her they were in a metropolis at all.

"You're back on Luna now," she said. "You have to be careful what you say."

"You're giving me advice on how to be covert?"

"Jacin "

"There are three cameras on this square. Two on the lampposts behind you, one embedded in the oak tree behind the sundial. None of them have audio. Unless she's hiring lip readers now?"

Winter glared. "How can you know for sure?"

"Surveillance was one of Sybil's specialties."

"Nevertheless, the queen could have killed you yesterday. You need to be careful."

"I know, Princess. I have no interest in returning to that throne room as anything other than a loyal guard."

A rumble overhead caught Winter's attention. Through the dome, the lights of a dozen spaceships were fading as they streaked across the star scattered sky. Heading toward Earth.

"Soldiers," Jacin muttered. She couldn't tell if he meant it as a statement or a question. "How's the war effort?"

"No one tells me anything. But Her Majesty seems pleased with our victories ... though still furious about the missing emperor, and the canceled wedding."

"Not canceled. Just delayed."

"Try telling her that."

He grunted.

Winter leaned forward on her elbows, cupping her chin. "Did the cyborg really have a device like you said? One that can keep people from being manipulated?"

A light sparked in his eyes, as if she'd reminded him of something important, but when he tried to lean toward her, his binds held him back. He grimaced and cursed beneath his breath.

Winter scooted closer to him, making up the distance herself.

"That's not all," he said. "Supposedly, this device can keep Lunars from using their gift in the first place."

"Yes, you mentioned that in the throne room."

His gaze burrowed into her. "And it will protect their minds. She said it keeps them from..."

Going crazy.

He didn't have to say it out loud, not when his face held so much hope, like he'd solved the world's greatest problem. His meaning hung between them.

Such a device could heal her.

Winter's fingers curled up and settled under her chin. "You said there weren't any more of them."

"No. But if we could find the patents for the invention ... to even know it's possible..."

"The queen will do anything to keep more from being made."

His expression darkened. "I know, but I had to offer something. If only Sybil hadn't arrested me in the first place, ungrateful witch." Winter smiled, and when Jacin caught the look, his irritation melted away. "Doesn't matter. Now that I know it's possible, I'll find a way to do it."

"The visions are never so bad when you're around. They'll be better now that you're back."

His jaw tensed. "I'm sorry I left. I regretted it as soon as I realized what I'd done. It happened so fast, and then I couldn't come back for you. I'd just ... abandoned you up here. With her. With them."

"You didn't abandon me. You were taken hostage. You didn't have a choice."

He looked away.

She straightened. "You weren't manipulated?"

"Not the whole time," he whispered, like a confession. "I chose to side with them, when Sybil and I boarded their ship." Guilt washed over his face, and it was such an odd expression on him Winter wasn't sure she was interpreting it right. "Then I betrayed them." He thumped his head against the sundial, harder than necessary. "I'm such an idiot. You should hate me."

"You may be an idiot, but I assure you, you're quite a lovable one."

He shook his head. "You're the only person in the galaxy who would ever call me lovable."

"I'm the only person in the galaxy crazy enough to believe it. Now tell me what you've done that is worth hating you for."

He swallowed, hard. "That cyborg Her Majesty is searching for?"

"Linh Cinder."

"Yeah. Well, I thought she was just some crazy girl on a suicide mission, right? I figured she was going to get us all killed with these delusions of kidnapping the emperor and overthrowing the queen ... to listen to her talk, anyone would have thought that. So I figured, I'd rather take a chance and come back to you, if I could. Let her throw her own life away."

"But Linh Cinder did kidnap the emperor. And she got away."

"I know." He shifted his attention back to Winter. "Sybil took one of her friends hostage, some girl named Scarlet. Don't suppose you know "

Winter beamed. "Oh, yes. The queen gave her to me as a pet, and she's being kept in the menagerie. I like her a great deal." Her brow creased. "Although I can't tell if she's decided to like me or not."

He flinched at a sudden unknown pain and spent a moment re situating himself. "Can you get her a message for me?"

"Of course."

"You have to be careful. I won't tell you if you can't be discreet for your own sake."

"I can be discreet."

Jacin looked skeptical.

"I can. I will be as secretive as a spy. As secretive as you." Winter scooted a bit closer.

His voice fell, as if he were no longer certain those cameras didn't come with audio. "Tell her they're coming for her."

Winter stared. "Coming for ... coming here?"

He nodded, a subtle dip of his head. "And I think they might actually have a chance."

Frowning, Winter reached forward and tucked the strands of Jacin's sweat  and dirt stained hair behind his ears. He tensed at the touch, but didn't pull away. "Jacin Clay, you're speaking in riddles."

"Linh Cinder." His voice became hardly more than a breath and she tilted closer yet to hear him. A curl of her hair fell against his shoulder. He licked his lips. "She's Selene."

Every muscle in her body tightened. She pulled back. "If Her Majesty heard you say "

"I won't tell anyone else. But I had to tell you." His eyes crinkled at the corners, full of sympathy. "I know you loved her."

Her heart thumped. "My Selene?"

"Yes. But ... I'm sorry, Princess. I don't think she remembers you."

Winter blinked, letting the daydream fill her up for one hazy moment. Selene, alive. Her cousin, her friend? Alive.

She scrunched her shoulders against her neck, casting the hope away. "No. She's dead. I was there, Jacin. I saw the aftermath of the fire."

"You didn't see her."

"They found "

"Charred flesh. I know."

"A pile of girl shaped ashes."

"They were just ashes. Look, I didn't believe it either, but I do now." One corner of his mouth tilted up, into something like pride. "She's our lost princess. And she's coming home."

A throat cleared behind Winter and her skeleton nearly leaped from her skin. She swiveled her torso around, falling onto her elbow.

Her personal guard was standing beside the dais, scowling.

"Ah!" Heart fluttering with a thousand startled birds, Winter broke into a relieved smile. "Did you catch the monster?"

There was no return smile, not even a flush of his cheeks, which was the normal reaction when she let loose that particular look. Instead, his right eyebrow began to twitch.

"Your Highness. I have come to retrieve you and escort you back to the palace."

Righting herself, Winter clasped her hands in front of her chest. "Of course. It's so kind of you to worry after me." She glanced back at Jacin, who was eyeing the guard with distrust. No surprise. He eyed everyone with distrust. "I fear tomorrow will be even more difficult for you, Sir Clay. Do try to think of me when you can."

"Try, Princess?" He smirked up at her. "I can't seem to think of much else."

Four

Cinder lay on the ground, staring up at the Rampion's vast engine, its ductwork, and revolving life support module. The system blueprints she'd downloaded weeks ago were overlaid across her vision a cyborg trick that had come in handy countless times when she was a working mechanic in New Beijing. She expanded the blueprint, zooming in on a cylinder the length of her arm. It was tucked near the engine room's wall. Coils of tubing sprouted from both sides.

"That has to be the problem," she muttered, dismissing the blueprint. She shimmied beneath the revolving module, dust bunnies gathering around her shoulders, and eased herself back to sitting. There was just enough space for her to squeeze in between the labyrinth of wires and coils, pipes and tubes.

Holding her breath, she pressed her ear against the cylinder. The metal was ice cold against her skin.

She waited. Listened. Adjusted the volume on her audio sensors.

What she heard was the door to the engine room opening.

Glancing back, she spotted the gray pants of a military uniform in the yellowish light from the corridor. That could have been anyone on the ship, but the shiny black dress shoes ...

"Hello?" said Kai.

Her heart thumped every single time, her heart thumped.

"Back here."

Kai shut the door and crouched down on the far side of the room, framed between the jumble of thumping pistons and spinning fans. "What are you doing?"

"Checking the oxygen filters. One minute."

She placed her ear against the cylinder again. There a faint clatter, like a pebble banging around inside. "Aha."

She dug a wrench from her pocket and set to loosening the nuts on either side of the cylinder. As soon as it was free, the ship fell eerily quiet, like a humming that became noticeable only after it stopped. Kai's eyebrows shot upward.

Cinder peered into the cylinder's depths, before sticking her fingers in and pulling out a complicated filter. It was made of tiny channels and crevices, all lined with a thin gray film.

"No wonder the takeoffs have been rocky."

"I don't suppose you could use some help?"

"Nope. Unless you want to find me a broom."

"A broom?"

Raising the filter, Cinder banged the end of it on one of the overhead pipes. A dust cloud exploded around her, covering her hair and arms. Coughing, Cinder buried her nose in the crook of her elbow and kept banging until the biggest chunks had been dislodged.

"Ah. A broom. Right. There might be one up in the kitchen?... I mean, the galley."

Blinking the dust from her eyelashes, Cinder grinned at him. He was usually so self assured that in the rare moments when he was flustered, it made all of her insides swap wrong side up. And he was flustered a lot lately. Since the moment he'd woken up aboard the Rampion, it was clear that Kai was twelve thousand kilometers outside of his element, yet he adapted well in the past weeks. He learned the terminology, he ate the canned and freeze dried meals without complaint, he traded his fancy wedding clothes for the standard military uniform they all wore. He insisted on helping out where he could, even cooking a few of those bland meals, despite how Iko pointed out that as he was their royal guest they should be waiting on him. Thorne laughed, though, and the suggestion seemed to make Kai even more uncomfortable.

While Cinder couldn't imagine him abdicating his throne and setting off on a lifetime of space travel and adventure, it was rather adorable watching him try to fit in.

"I was kidding," she said. "Engine rooms are supposed to be dirty." She examined the filter again and, deeming it satisfactory, twisted it back into the cylinder and bolted it all in place. The humming started up again, but the pebble clatter was gone.

Cinder squirmed feetfirst out from beneath the module and ductwork. Still crouching, Kai peered down at her and smirked. "Iko's right. You really can't stay clean for more than five minutes."

"It's part of the job description." She sat up, sending a cascade of lint off her shoulders.

Kai brushed some of the larger chunks from her hair. "Where did you learn to do all this, anyway?"

"What, that? Anyone can clean an oxygen filter."

"Trust me, they can't." He settled his elbows on his knees and let his attention wander around the engine room. "You know what all this does?"

She followed the look every wire, every manifold, every compression coil and shrugged. "Pretty much. Except for that big, rotating thing in the corner. Can't figure it out. But how important could it be?"

Kai rolled his eyes.

Grasping a pipe, Cinder hauled herself to her feet and shoved the wrench back into her pocket. "I didn't learn it anywhere. I just look at things and figure out how they work. Once you know how something works, you can figure out how to fix it."

She tried to shake the last bits of dust from her hair, but there seemed to be an endless supply.

"Oh, you just look at something and figure out how it works," Kai deadpanned, standing beside her. "Is that all?"

Cinder fixed her ponytail and shrugged, suddenly embarrassed. "It's just mechanics."

Kai scooped an arm around her waist and pulled her against him. "No, it's impressive," he said, using the pad of his thumb to brush something off Cinder's cheek. "Not to mention, weirdly attractive," he said, before capturing her lips.

Cinder tensed briefly, before melting into the kiss. The rush was the same every time, coupled with surprise and a wave of giddiness. It was their seventeenth kiss (her brain interface was keeping a tally, somewhat against her will), and she wondered if she would ever get used to this feeling. Being desired, when she'd spent her life believing no one would ever see her as anything but a bizarre science experiment.

Especially not a boy.

Especially not Kai, who was smart and honorable and kind, and could have had any girl he wanted. Any girl.

She sighed against him, leaning into the embrace. Kai reached for an overhead pipe and pressed Cinder against the main computer console. She offered no resistance. Though her body wouldn't allow her to blush, there was an unfamiliar heat that flooded every inch of her when he was this close. Every nerve ending sparked and thrummed, and she knew he could kiss her another seventeen thousand times and she would never grow tired of it.

She tied her arms around his neck, molding their bodies together. The warmth of his chest seeped into her clothes. It felt nothing but right. Nothing but perfect.

But then there was the feeling, always lurking, always ready to cloud her contentment. The knowledge that this couldn't last.

Not so long as Kai was engaged to Levana.

Angry at the thought's invasion, she kissed Kai harder, but her thoughts continued to rebel. Even if they succeeded and Cinder was able to reclaim her throne, she would be expected to stay on Luna as their new queen. She was no expert, but it seemed problematic to carry on a relationship on two different planets 

Er, a planet and a moon.

Or whatever.

The point was, there would be 384,000 kilometers of space between her and Kai, which was a lot of space, and 

Kai smiled, breaking the kiss. "What's wrong?" he murmured against her mouth.

Cinder leaned back to look at him. His hair was getting longer, bordering on unkempt. As a prince, he'd always been groomed to near perfection. But then he became an emperor. The weeks since his coronation had been spent trying to stop a war, hunt down a wanted fugitive, avoid getting married, and endure his own kidnapping. As a result, haircuts became a dispensable luxury.

She hesitated before asking, "Do you ever think about the future?"

His expression turned wary. "Of course I do."

"And ... does it include me?"

His gaze softened. Releasing the overhead pipe, he tucked a strand of hair behind her ear. "That depends on whether I'm thinking about the good future or the bad one."

Cinder tucked her head under his chin. "As long as one of them does."

"This is going to work," Kai said, speaking into her hair. "We're going to win."

She nodded, glad he couldn't see her face.

Defeating Levana and becoming Luna's queen was only the beginning of an entire galaxy's worth of worries. She so badly wanted to stay like this, cocooned in this spaceship, together and safe and alone ... but that was the opposite of what was going to happen. Once they overthrew Levana, Kai would go back to being the emperor of the Eastern Commonwealth and, someday, he was going to need an empress.

She might have a blood claim to Luna and the hope that the Lunar people would choose anyone over Levana, even a politically inept teenager who was made up of 36.28 percent cybernetic and manufactured materials. But she had seen the prejudices of the people in the Commonwealth. Something told her they wouldn't be as accepting of her as a ruler.

She wasn't even sure she wanted to be empress. She was still getting used to the idea of being a princess.

"One thing at a time," she whispered, trying to still her swirling thoughts.

Kai kissed her temple (which her brain did not count as #18), then pulled away. "How's your training going?"

"Fine." She disentangled herself from his arms and glanced around the engine. "Oh, hey, while you're here, can you help me with this?" Cinder scooted around him and opened a panel on the wall, revealing a bundle of knotted wires.

"That was a subtle change of subject."

"I am not changing the subject," she said, although a forced clearing of her throat negated her denial. "I'm rewiring the orbital defaults so the ship's systems will run more efficiently while we're coasting. These cargo ships are made for frequent landings and takeoffs, not the constant "

"Cinder."

She pursed her lips and unplugged a few wire connectors. "Training is going fine," she repeated. "Could you hand me the wire cutters on the floor?"

Kai scanned the ground, then grabbed two tools and held them up.

"Left hand," she said. He handed them to her. "Sparring with Wolf has gotten a lot easier. Although it's hard to tell if that's because I'm getting stronger, or because he's ... you know."

She didn't have a word for it. Wolf had been a shadow of his former self since Scarlet had been captured. The only thing holding him together was his determination to get to Luna and rescue her as soon as possible.

"Either way," she added, "I think he's taught me as much about using my Lunar gift as he's going to be able to. From here on, I'll have to wing it." She examined the mess of wires, aligning it with a diagram over her retina display. "Not like that hasn't been my primary tactic this whole time." She furrowed her brow and made a few snips. "Here, hold these wires and don't let them touch."

Edging against her, Kai took hold of the wires she indicated. "What happens if they touch?"

"Oh, probably nothing, but there's a small chance the ship would self destruct." Pulling out two of the fresh cut wires, she began to twist them together into a new sequence.

Kai hardly breathed until she'd taken one of the threatening wires out of his grip. "Why don't you practice on me?" he said.

"Practice what?"

"You know. Your mind manipulation thing."

She paused with the cutters hovering over a blue wire. "Absolutely not."

"Why?"

"I said I'd never manipulate you, and I'm sticking with that."

"It isn't manipulation if I know you're doing it." He hesitated. "At least, I don't think so. We could use a code word, so I'll know when you're controlling me. Like ... what were those called again?"

"Wire cutters?"

"Like wire cutters."

"No."

"Or something else."

"I'm not practicing on you." Slipping the cutters into her pocket, she finished splicing the rest of the wires and relieved Kai of his duty. "There, we'll see how that goes."
